.. _publications:

============
Publications
============

This lists known publications where GenomeDK was used for some or all of the
data analysis. The list is updated approximately once a year. If you think a
publication is missing or should not have been included, please let us know.


* Speed MS, Jefsen OH, Børglum AD, Speed D, Østergaard SD.. **Investigating the association between body fat and depression via Mendelian randomization**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Aug 5;9(1):184. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0516-4.*
* Liu X, Helenius D, Skotte L, Beaumont RN, Wielscher M, Geller F, Juodakis J, Mahajan A, Bradfield JP, Lin FTJ, Vogelezang S, Bustamante M, Ahluwalia TS, Pitkänen N, Wang CA, Bacelis J, Borges MC, Zhang G, Bedell BA, Rossi RM, Skogstrand K, Peng S, Thompson WK, Appadurai V, Lawlor DA, Kalliala I, Power C, McCarthy MI, Boyd HA, Marazita ML, Hakonarson H, Hayes MG, Scholtens DM, Rivadeneira F, Jaddoe VWV, Vinding RK, Bisgaard H, Knight BA, Pahkala K, Raitakari O, Helgeland Ø, Johansson S, Njølstad PR, Fadista J, Schork AJ, Nudel R, Miller DE, Chen X, Weirauch MT, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Nordentoft M, Mors O, Hao K, Ryckman KK, Hougaard DM, Kottyan LC, Pennell CE, Lyytikainen LP, Bønnelykke K, Vrijheid M, Felix JF, Lowe WL Jr, Grant SFA, Hyppönen E, Jacobsson B, Jarvelin MR, Muglia LJ, Murray JC, Freathy RM, Werge TM, Melbye M, Buil A, Feenstra B.. **Variants in the fetal genome near pro-inflammatory cytokine genes on 2q13 associate with gestational duration**. *Nat Commun. 2019 Sep 2;10(1):3927. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-11881-8.*
* Satterstrom FK, Walters RK, Singh T, Wigdor EM, Lescai F, Demontis D, Kosmicki JA, Grove J, Stevens C, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Palmer DS, Maller JB; iPSYCH-Broad Consortium, Nordentoft M, Mors O, Robinson EB, Hougaard DM, Werge TM, Bo Mortensen P, Neale BM, Børglum AD, Daly MJ.. **Autism spectrum disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder have a similar burden of rare protein-truncating variants**. *Nat Neurosci. 2019 Dec;22(12):1961-1965. doi: 10.1038/s41593-019-0527-8. Epub 2019 Nov 25.*
* Demontis D, Rajagopal VM, Thorgeirsson TE, Als TD, Grove J, Leppälä K, Gudbjartsson DF, Pallesen J, Hjorthøj C, Reginsson GW, Tyrfingsson T, Runarsdottir V, Qvist P, Christensen JH, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Huckins LM, Stahl EA, Timmermann A, Agerbo E, Hougaard DM, Werge T, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Nordentoft M, Daly MJ, Stefansson H, Stefansson K, Nyegaard M, Børglum AD.. **Genome-wide association study implicates CHRNA2 in cannabis use disorder**. *Nat Neurosci. 2019 Jul;22(7):1066-1074. doi: 10.1038/s41593-019-0416-1. Epub 2019 Jun 17.*
* Klein M, Walters RK, Demontis D, Stein JL, Hibar DP, Adams HH, Bralten J, Roth Mota N, Schachar R, Sonuga-Barke E, Mattheisen M, Neale BM, Thompson PM, Medland SE, Børglum AD, Faraone SV, Arias-Vasquez A, Franke B.. **Genetic Markers of ADHD-Related Variations in Intracranial Volume**. *Am J Psychiatry. 2019 Mar 1;176(3):228-238. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2018.18020149.*
* Pineda-Cirera L, Shivalikanjli A, Cabana-Domínguez J, Demontis D, Rajagopal VM, Børglum AD, Faraone SV, Cormand B, Fernàndez-Castillo N.. **Exploring genetic variation that influences brain methylation in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Oct 3;9(1):242. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0574-7.*
* Wimberley T, Agerbo E, Horsdal HT, Ottosen C, Brikell I, Als TD, Demontis D, Børglum AD, Nordentoft M, Mors O, Werge T, Hougaard D, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Hansen MB, Mortensen PB, Thapar A, Riglin L, Langley K, Dalsgaard S.. **Genetic liability to ADHD and substance use disorders in individuals with ADHD**. *Addiction. 2019 Dec 5. doi: 10.1111/add.14910. doi: 10.1111/add.14910. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Czamara D, Eraslan G, Page CM, Lahti J, Lahti-Pulkkinen M, Hämäläinen E, Kajantie E, Laivuori H, Villa PM, Reynolds RM, Nystad W, Håberg SE, London SJ, O'Donnell KJ, Garg E, Meaney MJ, Entringer S, Wadhwa PD, Buss C, Jones MJ, Lin DTS, MacIsaac JL, Kobor MS, Koen N, Zar HJ, Koenen KC, Dalvie S, Stein DJ, Kondofersky I, Müller NS, Theis FJ; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Räikkönen K, Binder EB.. **Integrated analysis of environmental and genetic influences on cord blood DNA methylation in new-borns**. *Nat Commun. 2019 Jun 11;10(1):2548. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-10461-0.*
* Demontis D, Walters RK, Martin J, Mattheisen M, Als TD, Agerbo E, Baldursson G, Belliveau R, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Cerrato F, Chambert K, Churchhouse C, Dumont A, Eriksson N, Gandal M, Goldstein JI, Grasby KL, Grove J, Gudmundsson OO, Hansen CS, Hauberg ME, Hollegaard MV, Howrigan DP, Huang H, Maller JB, Martin AR, Martin NG, Moran J, Pallesen J, Palmer DS, Pedersen CB, Pedersen MG, Poterba T, Poulsen JB, Ripke S, Robinson EB, Satterstrom FK, Stefansson H, Stevens C, Turley P, Walters GB, Won H, Wright MJ; ADHD Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC); Early Lifecourse & Genetic Epidemiology (EAGLE) Consortium; 23andMe Research Team, Andreassen OA, Asherson P, Burton CL, Boomsma DI, Cormand B, Dalsgaard S, Franke B, Gelernter J, Geschwind D, Hakonarson H, Haavik J, Kranzler HR, Kuntsi J, Langley K, Lesch KP, Middeldorp C, Reif A, Rohde LA, Roussos P, Schachar R, Sklar P, Sonuga-Barke EJS, Sullivan PF, Thapar A, Tung JY, Waldman ID, Medland SE, Stefansson K, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Werge T, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Daly MJ, Faraone SV, Børglum AD, Neale BM.. **Discovery of the first genome-wide significant risk loci for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Jan;51(1):63-75. doi: 10.1038/s41588-018-0269-7. Epub 2018 Nov 26.*
* Leduc-Galindo D, Qvist P, Tóth AE, Fryland T, Nielsen MS, Børglum AD, Christensen JH.. **The effect of hypoxia on ZEB1 expression in a mimetic system of the blood-brain barrier**. *Microvasc Res. 2019 Mar;122:131-135. doi: 10.1016/j.mvr.2018.08.004. Epub 2018 Aug 23.*
* Johansen AFB, Kassentoft CG, Knudsen M, Laursen MB, Madsen AH, Iversen LH, Sunesen KG, Rasmussen MH, Andersen CL.. **Validation of computational determination of microsatellite status using whole exome sequencing data from colorectal cancer patients**. *BMC Cancer. 2019 Oct 21;19(1):971. doi: 10.1186/s12885-019-6227-7.*
* Mullins N, Bigdeli TB, Børglum AD, Coleman JRI, Demontis D, Mehta D, Power RA, Ripke S, Stahl EA, Starnawska A, Anjorin A; M.R.C.Psych, Corvin A, Sanders AR, Forstner AJ, Reif A, Koller AC, Świątkowska B, Baune BT, Müller-Myhsok B, Penninx BWJH, Pato C, Zai C, Rujescu D, Hougaard DM, Quested D, Levinson DF, Binder EB, Byrne EM, Agerbo E; Dr.Med.Sc, Streit F, Mayoral F, Bellivier F, Degenhardt F, Breen G, Morken G, Turecki G, Rouleau GA, Grabe HJ, Völzke H, Jones I, Giegling I, Agartz I, Melle I, Lawrence J; M.R.C.Psych, Walters JTR, Strohmaier J, Shi J, Hauser J, Biernacka JM, Vincent JB, Kelsoe J, Strauss JS, Lissowska J, Pimm J; M.R.C.Psych, Smoller JW, Guzman-Parra J, Berger K, Scott LJ, Jones LA, Azevedo MH, Trzaskowski M, Kogevinas M, Rietschel M, Boks M, Ising M, Grigoroiu-Serbanescu M, Hamshere ML, Leboyer M, Frye M, Nöthen MM, Alda M, Preisig M, Nordentoft M, Boehnke M, O'Donovan MC, Owen MJ, Pato MT, Renteria ME, Budde M; Dipl.-Psych, Weissman MM, Wray NR, Bass N; M.R.C.Psych, Craddock N, Smeland OB, Andreassen OA, Mors O, Gejman PV, Sklar P, McGrath P, Hoffmann P, McGuffin P, Lee PH, Mortensen PB, Kahn RS, et al.. **GWAS of Suicide Attempt in Psychiatric Disorders and Association With Major Depression Polygenic Risk Scores**. *Am J Psychiatry. 2019 Aug 1;176(8):651-660. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2019.18080957. Epub 2019 Jun 5.*
* Pardiñas AF, Holmans P, Pocklington AJ, Escott-Price V, Ripke S, Carrera N, Legge SE, Bishop S, Cameron D, Hamshere ML, Han J, Hubbard L, Lynham A, Mantripragada K, Rees E, MacCabe JH, McCarroll SA, Baune BT, Breen G, Byrne EM, Dannlowski U, Eley TC, Hayward C, Martin NG, McIntosh AM, Plomin R, Porteous DJ, Wray NR, Caballero A, Geschwind DH, Huckins LM, Ruderfer DM, Santiago E, Sklar P, Stahl EA, Won H, Agerbo E, Als TD, Andreassen OA, Bækvad-Hansen M, Mortensen PB, Pedersen CB, Børglum AD, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Djurovic S, Durmishi N, Pedersen MG, Golimbet V, Grove J, Hougaard DM, Mattheisen M, Molden E, Mors O, Nordentoft M, Pejovic-Milovancevic M, Sigurdsson E, Silagadze T, Hansen CS, Stefansson K, Stefansson H, Steinberg S, Tosato S, Werge T; GERAD1 Consortium; CRESTAR Consortium, Collier DA, Rujescu D, Kirov G, Owen MJ, O'Donovan MC, Walters JTR.. **Publisher Correction: Common schizophrenia alleles are enriched in mutation-intolerant genes and in regions under strong background selection**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Jul;51(7):1193. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0450-7.*
* Lyskjær I, Kronborg CS, Rasmussen MH, Sørensen BS, Demuth C, Rosenkilde M, Johansen AFB, Knudsen M, Vang S, Krag SRP, Spindler KG, Andersen CL.. **Correlation between early dynamics in circulating tumour DNA and outcome from FOLFIRI treatment in metastatic colorectal cancer**. *Sci Rep. 2019 Aug 8;9(1):11542. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-47708-1.*
* Bavafaye Haghighi E, Knudsen M, Elmedal Laursen B, Besenbacher S.. **Hierarchical Classification of Cancers of Unknown Primary Using Multi-Omics Data**. *Cancer Inform. 2019 Aug 30;18:1176935119872163. doi: 10.1177/1176935119872163. eCollection 2019.*
* Drange OK, Smeland OB, Shadrin AA, Finseth PI, Witoelar A, Frei O; Psychiatric Genomics Consortium Bipolar Disorder Working Group, Wang Y, Hassani S, Djurovic S, Dale AM, Andreassen OA.. **Genetic Overlap Between Alzheimer's Disease and Bipolar Disorder Implicates the MARK2 and VAC14 Genes**. *Front Neurosci. 2019 Mar 13;13:220. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00220. eCollection 2019.*
* Skogstrand K, Hagen CM, Borbye-Lorenzen N, Christiansen M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Werge T, Børglum A, Mors O, Nordentoft M, Mortensen PB, Hougaard DM.. **Reduced neonatal brain-derived neurotrophic factor is associated with autism spectrum disorders**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Oct 7;9(1):252. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0587-2.*
* Hess JL, Tylee DS, Mattheisen M; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research (iPSYCH), Børglum AD, Als TD, Grove J, Werge T, Mortensen PB, Mors O, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Byberg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Greenwood TA, Tsuang MT, Curtis D, Steinberg S, Sigurdsson E, Stefánsson H, Stefánsson K, Edenberg HJ, Holmans P, Faraone SV, Glatt SJ.. **A polygenic resilience score moderates the genetic risk for schizophrenia**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2019 Sep 6. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0463-8. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0463-8. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Warrier V, Toro R, Won H, Leblond CS, Cliquet F, Delorme R, De Witte W, Bralten J, Chakrabarti B, Børglum AD, Grove J, Poelmans G, Hinds DA, Bourgeron T, Baron-Cohen S.. **Social and non-social autism symptoms and trait domains are genetically dissociable**. *Commun Biol. 2019 Sep 3;2:328. doi: 10.1038/s42003-019-0558-4. eCollection 2019.*
* Andlauer TFM, Guzman-Parra J, Streit F, Strohmaier J, González MJ, Gil Flores S, Cabaleiro Fabeiro FJ, Del Río Noriega F, Perez FP, Haro González J, Orozco Diaz G, de Diego-Otero Y, Moreno-Küstner B, Auburger G, Degenhardt F, Heilmann-Heimbach S, Herms S, Hoffmann P, Frank J, Foo JC, Treutlein J, Witt SH, Cichon S, Kogevinas M; Bipolar Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Rivas F, Mayoral F, Müller-Myhsok B, Forstner AJ, Nöthen MM, Rietschel M.. **Bipolar multiplex families have an increased burden of common risk variants for psychiatric disorders**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2019 Nov 11. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0558-2. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0558-2. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Purves KL, Coleman JRI, Meier SM, Rayner C, Davis KAS, Cheesman R, Bækvad-Hansen M, Børglum AD, Wan Cho S, Jürgen Deckert J, Gaspar HA, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Hettema JM, Hotopf M, Hougaard D, Hübel C, Kan C, McIntosh AM, Mors O, Bo Mortensen P, Nordentoft M, Werge T, Nicodemus KK, Mattheisen M, Breen G, Eley TC.. **A major role for common genetic variation in anxiety disorders**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2019 Nov 20. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0559-1. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0559-1. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Glanville KP, Coleman JRI, Hanscombe KB, Euesden J, Choi SW, Purves KL, Breen G, Air TM, Andlauer TFM, Baune BT, Binder EB, Blackwood DHR, Boomsma DI, Buttenschøn HN, Colodro-Conde L, Dannlowski U, Direk N, Dunn EC, Forstner AJ, de Geus EJC, Grabe HJ, Hamilton SP, Jones I, Jones LA, Knowles JA, Kutalik Z, Levinson DF, Lewis G, Lind PA, Lucae S, Magnusson PK, McGuffin P, McIntosh AM, Milaneschi Y, Mors O, Mostafavi S, Müller-Myhsok B, Pedersen NL, Penninx BWJH, Potash JB, Preisig M, Ripke S, Shi J, Shyn SI, Smoller JW, Streit F, Sullivan PF, Tiemeier H, Uher R, Van der Auwera S, Weissman MM; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, O'Reilly PF, Lewis CM.. **Classical Human Leukocyte Antigen Alleles and C4 Haplotypes Are Not Significantly Associated With Depression**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2019 Aug 5. pii: S0006-3223(19)31558-6. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.06.031. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Meier SM, Trontti K, Purves KL, Als TD, Grove J, Laine M, Pedersen MG, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækved-Hansen M, Sokolowska E, Mortensen PB, Hougaard DM, Werge T, Nordentoft M, Breen G, Børglum AD, Eley TC, Hovatta I, Mattheisen M, Mors O.. **Genetic Variants Associated With Anxiety and Stress-Related Disorders: A Genome-Wide Association Study and Mouse-Model Study**. *JAMA Psychiatry. 2019 May 22;76(9):924-32. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2019.1119. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Gasse C, Wimberley T, Wang Y, Mors O, Børglum A, Als TD, Werge T, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Horsdal HT.. **Schizophrenia polygenic risk scores, urbanicity and treatment-resistant schizophrenia**. *Schizophr Res. 2019 Oct;212:79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2019.08.008. Epub 2019 Aug 22.*
* Paternoster V, Svanborg M, Edhager AV, Rajkumar AP, Eickhardt EA, Pallesen J, Grove J, Qvist P, Fryland T, Wegener G, Nyengaard JR, Mors O, Palmfeldt J, Børglum AD, Christensen JH.. **Brain proteome changes in female Brd1(+/-) mice unmask dendritic spine pathology and show enrichment for schizophrenia risk**. *Neurobiol Dis. 2019 Apr;124:479-488. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2018.12.011. Epub 2018 Dec 24.*
* Musliner KL, Mortensen PB, McGrath JJ, Suppli NP, Hougaard DM, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Andreassen O, Pedersen CB, Pedersen MG, Mors O, Nordentoft M, Børglum AD, Werge T, Agerbo E; Bipolar Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Association of Polygenic Liabilities for Major Depression, Bipolar Disorder, and Schizophrenia With Risk for Depression in the Danish Population**. *JAMA Psychiatry. 2019 May 1;76(5):516-525. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2018.4166.*
* Schork AJ, Won H, Appadurai V, Nudel R, Gandal M, Delaneau O, Revsbech Christiansen M, Hougaard DM, Bækved-Hansen M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Giørtz Pedersen M, Agerbo E, Bøcker Pedersen C, Neale BM, Daly MJ, Wray NR, Nordentoft M, Mors O, Børglum AD, Bo Mortensen P, Buil A, Thompson WK, Geschwind DH, Werge T.. **A genome-wide association study of shared risk across psychiatric disorders implicates gene regulation during fetal neurodevelopment**. *Nat Neurosci. 2019 Mar;22(3):353-361. doi: 10.1038/s41593-018-0320-0. Epub 2019 Jan 28.*
* Trzaskowski M, Mehta D, Peyrot WJ, Hawkes D, Davies D, Howard DM, Kemper KE, Sidorenko J, Maier R, Ripke S, Mattheisen M, Baune BT, Grabe HJ, Heath AC, Jones L, Jones I, Madden PAF, McIntosh AM, Breen G, Lewis CM, Børglum AD, Sullivan PF, Martin NG, Kendler KS, Levinson DF, Wray NR; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Quantifying between-cohort and between-sex genetic heterogeneity in major depressive disorder**. *Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2019 Sep;180(6):439-447. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32713. Epub 2019 Feb 1.*
* Soler Artigas M, Sánchez-Mora C, Rovira P, Richarte V, Garcia-Martínez I, Pagerols M, Demontis D, Stringer S; ADHD Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, International Cannabis Consortium, Vink JM, Børglum AD, Neale BM, Franke B, Faraone SV, Casas M, Ramos-Quiroga JA, Ribasés M.. **Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and lifetime cannabis use: genetic overlap and causality**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2019 Jan 4. doi: 10.1038/s41380-018-0339-3. doi: 10.1038/s41380-018-0339-3. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Nievergelt CM, Maihofer AX, Klengel T, Atkinson EG, Chen CY, Choi KW, Coleman JRI, Dalvie S, Duncan LE, Gelernter J, Levey DF, Logue MW, Polimanti R, Provost AC, Ratanatharathorn A, Stein MB, Torres K, Aiello AE, Almli LM, Amstadter AB, Andersen SB, Andreassen OA, Arbisi PA, Ashley-Koch AE, Austin SB, Avdibegovic E, Babić D, Bækvad-Hansen M, Baker DG, Beckham JC, Bierut LJ, Bisson JI, Boks MP, Bolger EA, Børglum AD, Bradley B, Brashear M, Breen G, Bryant RA, Bustamante AC, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Calabrese JR, Caldas-de-Almeida JM, Dale AM, Daly MJ, Daskalakis NP, Deckert J, Delahanty DL, Dennis MF, Disner SG, Domschke K, Dzubur-Kulenovic A, Erbes CR, Evans A, Farrer LA, Feeny NC, Flory JD, Forbes D, Franz CE, Galea S, Garrett ME, Gelaye B, Geuze E, Gillespie C, Uka AG, Gordon SD, Guffanti G, Hammamieh R, Harnal S, Hauser MA, Heath AC, Hemmings SMJ, Hougaard DM, Jakovljevic M, Jett M, Johnson EO, Jones I, Jovanovic T, Qin XJ, Junglen AG, Karstoft KI, Kaufman ML, Kessler RC, Khan A, Kimbrel NA, King AP, Koen N, Kranzler HR, Kremen WS, Lawford BR, Lebois LAM, Lewis CE, Linnstaedt SD, Lori A, Lugonja B, Luykx JJ, Lyons MJ, Maples-Keller J, Marmar C, Martin AR, et al.. **International meta-analysis of PTSD genome-wide association studies identifies sex- and ancestry-specific genetic risk loci**. *Nat Commun. 2019 Oct 8;10(1):4558. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-12576-w.*
* Hauberg ME, Fullard JF, Zhu L, Cohain AT, Giambartolomei C, Misir R, Reach S, Johnson JS, Wang M, Mattheisen M, Børglum AD, Zhang B, Sieberts SK, Peters MA, Domenici E, Schadt EE, Devlin B, Sklar P, Roeder K, Roussos P; CommonMind Consortium.. **Differential activity of transcribed enhancers in the prefrontal cortex of 537 cases with schizophrenia and controls**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2019 Nov;24(11):1685-1695. doi: 10.1038/s41380-018-0059-8. Epub 2018 May 8.*
* Nudel R, Benros ME, Krebs MD, Allesøe RL, Lemvigh CK, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Børglum AD, Daly MJ, Nordentoft M, Mors O, Hougaard DM, Mortensen PB, Buil A, Werge T, Rasmussen S, Thompson WK.. **Immunity and mental illness: findings from a Danish population-based immunogenetic study of seven psychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders**. *Eur J Hum Genet. 2019 Sep;27(9):1445-1455. doi: 10.1038/s41431-019-0402-9. Epub 2019 Apr 11.*
* Harold D, Connolly S, Riley BP, Kendler KS, McCarthy SE, McCombie WR, Richards A, Owen MJ, O'Donovan MC, Walters J; Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Donohoe G, Gill M, Corvin A, Morris DW.. **Population-based identity-by-descent mapping combined with exome sequencing to detect rare risk variants for schizophrenia**. *Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2019 Apr;180(3):223-231. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32716. Epub 2019 Feb 23.*
* Forstner AJ, Awasthi S, Wolf C, Maron E, Erhardt A, Czamara D, Eriksson E, Lavebratt C, Allgulander C, Friedrich N, Becker J, Hecker J, Rambau S, Conrad R, Geiser F, McMahon FJ, Moebus S, Hess T, Buerfent BC, Hoffmann P, Herms S, Heilmann-Heimbach S, Kockum I, Olsson T, Alfredsson L, Weber H, Alpers GW, Arolt V, Fehm L, Fydrich T, Gerlach AL, Hamm A, Kircher T, Pané-Farré CA, Pauli P, Rief W, Ströhle A, Plag J, Lang T, Wittchen HU, Mattheisen M, Meier S, Metspalu A, Domschke K, Reif A, Hovatta I, Lindefors N, Andersson E, Schalling M, Mbarek H, Milaneschi Y, de Geus EJC, Boomsma DI, Penninx BWJH, Thorgeirsson TE, Steinberg S, Stefansson K, Stefansson H, Müller-Myhsok B, Hansen TF, Børglum AD, Werge T, Mortensen PB, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Hultman CM, Sullivan PF, Nöthen MM, Woldbye DPD, Mors O, Binder EB, Rück C, Ripke S, Deckert J, Schumacher J.. **Genome-wide association study of panic disorder reveals genetic overlap with neuroticism and depression**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2019 Nov 11. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0590-2. doi: 10.1038/s41380-019-0590-2. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Njølstad PR, Andreassen OA, Brunak S, Børglum AD, Dillner J, Esko T, Franks PW, Freimer N, Groop L, Heimer H, Hougaard DM, Hovig E, Hveem K, Jalanko A, Kaprio J, Knudsen GP, Melbye M, Metspalu A, Mortensen PB, Palmgren J, Palotie A, Reed W, Stefánsson H, Stitziel NO, Sullivan PF, Thorsteinsdóttir U, Vaudel M, Vuorio E, Werge T, Stoltenberg C, Stefánsson K.. **Roadmap for a precision-medicine initiative in the Nordic region**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Jun;51(6):924-930. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0391-1.*
* Grove J, Ripke S, Als TD, Mattheisen M, Walters RK, Won H, Pallesen J, Agerbo E, Andreassen OA, Anney R, Awashti S, Belliveau R, Bettella F, Buxbaum JD, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Cerrato F, Chambert K, Christensen JH, Churchhouse C, Dellenvall K, Demontis D, De Rubeis S, Devlin B, Djurovic S, Dumont AL, Goldstein JI, Hansen CS, Hauberg ME, Hollegaard MV, Hope S, Howrigan DP, Huang H, Hultman CM, Klei L, Maller J, Martin J, Martin AR, Moran JL, Nyegaard M, Nærland T, Palmer DS, Palotie A, Pedersen CB, Pedersen MG, dPoterba T, Poulsen JB, Pourcain BS, Qvist P, Rehnström K, Reichenberg A, Reichert J, Robinson EB, Roeder K, Roussos P, Saemundsen E, Sandin S, Satterstrom FK, Davey Smith G, Stefansson H, Steinberg S, Stevens CR, Sullivan PF, Turley P, Walters GB, Xu X; Autism Spectrum Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; BUPGEN; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; 23andMe Research Team, Stefansson K, Geschwind DH, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Werge T, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Neale BM, Daly MJ, Børglum AD.. **Identification of common genetic risk variants for autism spectrum disorder**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Mar;51(3):431-444. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0344-8. Epub 2019 Feb 25.*
* Hannon E, Schendel D, Ladd-Acosta C, Grove J, Hansen CS, Hougaard DM, Bresnahan M, Mors O, Hollegaard MV, Bækvad-Hansen M, Hornig M, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Werge T, Pedersen MG, Nordentoft M; iPSYCH-Broad ASD Group, Buxbaum JD, Daniele Fallin M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Reichenberg A, Mill J.. **Variable DNA methylation in neonates mediates the association between prenatal smoking and birth weight**. *Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2019 Apr 15;374(1770):20180120. doi: 10.1098/rstb.2018.0120.*
* Verhoef E, Demontis D, Burgess S, Shapland CY, Dale PS, Okbay A, Neale BM, Faraone SV; iPSYCH-Broad-PGC ADHD Consortium, Stergiakouli E, Davey Smith G, Fisher SE, Børglum AD, St Pourcain B.. **Disentangling polygenic associations between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, educational attainment, literacy and language**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Jan 24;9(1):35. doi: 10.1038/s41398-018-0324-2.*
* Besenbacher S, Mailund T, Vilhjálmsson BJ, Schierup MH.. **Association Mapping and Disease: Evolutionary Perspectives**. *Methods Mol Biol. 2019;1910:533-553. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9074-0_17.*
* Kuderna LFK, Lizano E, Julià E, Gomez-Garrido J, Serres-Armero A, Kuhlwilm M, Alandes RA, Alvarez-Estape M, Juan D, Simon H, Alioto T, Gut M, Gut I, Schierup MH, Fornas O, Marques-Bonet T.. **Selective single molecule sequencing and assembly of a human Y chromosome of African origin**. *Nat Commun. 2019 Jan 2;10(1):4. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-07885-5.*
* Rogers J, Raveendran M, Harris RA, Mailund T, Leppälä K, Athanasiadis G, Schierup MH, Cheng J, Munch K, Walker JA, Konkel MK, Jordan V, Steely CJ, Beckstrom TO, Bergey C, Burrell A, Schrempf D, Noll A, Kothe M, Kopp GH, Liu Y, Murali S, Billis K, Martin FJ, Muffato M, Cox L, Else J, Disotell T, Muzny DM, Phillips-Conroy J, Aken B, Eichler EE, Marques-Bonet T, Kosiol C, Batzer MA, Hahn MW, Tung J, Zinner D, Roos C, Jolly CJ, Gibbs RA, Worley KC; Baboon Genome Analysis Consortium.. **The comparative genomics and complex population history of Papio baboons**. *Sci Adv. 2019 Jan 30;5(1):eaau6947. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aau6947. eCollection 2019 Jan.*
* Strand SH, Bavafaye-Haghighi E, Kristensen H, Rasmussen AK, Hoyer S, Borre M, Mouritzen P, Besenbacher S, Orntoft TF, Sorensen KD.. **A novel combined miRNA and methylation marker panel (miMe) for prediction of prostate cancer outcome after radical prostatectomy**. *Int J Cancer. 2019 Dec 15;145(12):3445-3452. doi: 10.1002/ijc.32427. Epub 2019 Jun 7.*
* Besenbacher S, Hvilsom C, Marques-Bonet T, Mailund T, Schierup MH.. **Direct estimation of mutations in great apes reconciles phylogenetic dating**. *Nat Ecol Evol. 2019 Feb;3(2):286-292. doi: 10.1038/s41559-018-0778-x. Epub 2019 Jan 21.*
* Coleman JRI, Gaspar HA, Bryois J; Bipolar Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Breen G.. **The Genetics of the Mood Disorder Spectrum: Genome-wide Association Analyses of More Than 185,000 Cases and 439,000 Controls**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2019 Nov 1. pii: S0006-3223(19)31813-X. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.10.015. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Bechsgaard J, Schou MF, Vanthournout B, Hendrickx F, Knudsen B, Settepani V, Schierup MH, Bilde T.. **Evidence for Faster X Chromosome Evolution in Spiders**. *Mol Biol Evol. 2019 Jun 1;36(6):1281-1293. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msz074.*
* Warrier V, Toro R, Won H, Leblond CS, Cliquet F, Delorme R, De Witte W, Bralten J, Chakrabarti B, Børglum AD, Grove J, Poelmans G, Hinds DA, Bourgeron T, Baron-Cohen S.. **Social and non-social autism symptoms and trait domains are genetically dissociable**. *Commun Biol. 2019 Sep 3;2(1):328. doi: 10.1038/s42003-019-0558-4.*
* Griffiths AG, Moraga R, Tausen M, Gupta V, Bilton TP, Campbell MA, Ashby R, Nagy I, Khan A, Larking A, Anderson C, Franzmayr B, Hancock K, Scott A, Ellison NW, Cox MP, Asp T, Mailund T, Schierup MH, Andersen SU.. **Breaking Free: The Genomics of Allopolyploidy-Facilitated Niche Expansion in White Clover**. *Plant Cell. 2019 Jul;31(7):1466-1487. doi: 10.1105/tpc.18.00606. Epub 2019 Apr 25.*
* Besenbacher S, Hvilsom C, Marques-Bonet T, Mailund T, Schierup MH.. **Author Correction: Direct estimation of mutations in great apes reconciles phylogenetic dating**. *Nat Ecol Evol. 2019 May;3(5):859. doi: 10.1038/s41559-019-0898-y.*
* Nudel R, Wang Y, Appadurai V, Schork AJ, Buil A, Agerbo E, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Børglum AD, Daly MJ, Mors O, Hougaard DM, Mortensen PB, Werge T, Nordentoft M, Thompson WK, Benros ME.. **A large-scale genomic investigation of susceptibility to infection and its association with mental disorders in the Danish population**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Nov 11;9(1):283. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0622-3.*
* Stahl EA, Breen G, Forstner AJ, McQuillin A, Ripke S, Trubetskoy V, Mattheisen M, Wang Y, Coleman JRI, Gaspar HA, de Leeuw CA, Steinberg S, Pavlides JMW, Trzaskowski M, Byrne EM, Pers TH, Holmans PA, Richards AL, Abbott L, Agerbo E, Akil H, Albani D, Alliey-Rodriguez N, Als TD, Anjorin A, Antilla V, Awasthi S, Badner JA, Bækvad-Hansen M, Barchas JD, Bass N, Bauer M, Belliveau R, Bergen SE, Pedersen CB, Bøen E, Boks MP, Boocock J, Budde M, Bunney W, Burmeister M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Byerley W, Casas M, Cerrato F, Cervantes P, Chambert K, Charney AW, Chen D, Churchhouse C, Clarke TK, Coryell W, Craig DW, Cruceanu C, Curtis D, Czerski PM, Dale AM, de Jong S, Degenhardt F, Del-Favero J, DePaulo JR, Djurovic S, Dobbyn AL, Dumont A, Elvsåshagen T, Escott-Price V, Fan CC, Fischer SB, Flickinger M, Foroud TM, Forty L, Frank J, Fraser C, Freimer NB, Frisén L, Gade K, Gage D, Garnham J, Giambartolomei C, Pedersen MG, Goldstein J, Gordon SD, Gordon-Smith K, Green EK, Green MJ, Greenwood TA, Grove J, Guan W, Guzman-Parra J, Hamshere ML, Hautzinger M, Heilbronner U, Herms S, Hipolito M, Hoffmann P, Holland D, Huckins L, Jamain S, Johnson JS, Juréus A, et al.. **Genome-wide association study identifies 30 loci associated with bipolar disorder**. *Nat Genet. 2019 May;51(5):793-803. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0397-8. Epub 2019 May 1.*
* Hjorthøj C, Uddin MJ, Wimberley T, Dalsgaard S, Hougaard DM, Børglum A, Werge T, Nordentoft M.. **No evidence of associations between genetic liability for schizophrenia and development of cannabis use disorder**. *Psychol Med. 2019 Dec 9:1-6. doi: 10.1017/S0033291719003362. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Huckins LM, Dobbyn A, Ruderfer DM, Hoffman G, Wang W, Pardiñas AF, Rajagopal VM, Als TD, T Nguyen H, Girdhar K, Boocock J, Roussos P, Fromer M, Kramer R, Domenici E, Gamazon ER, Purcell S; CommonMind Consortium; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; iPSYCH-GEMS Schizophrenia Working Group, Demontis D, Børglum AD, Walters JTR, O'Donovan MC, Sullivan P, Owen MJ, Devlin B, Sieberts SK, Cox NJ, Im HK, Sklar P, Stahl EA.. **Publisher Correction: Gene expression imputation across multiple brain regions provides insights into schizophrenia risk**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Jun;51(6):1068. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0435-6.*
* Christensen JH, Børglum AD.. **Modeling the cooperativity of schizophrenia risk genes**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Oct;51(10):1434-1436. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0508-6.*
* Cross-Disorder Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. Electronic address: plee0@mgh.harvard.edu; Cross-Disorder Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Genomic Relationships, Novel Loci, and Pleiotropic Mechanisms across Eight Psychiatric Disorders**. *Cell. 2019 Dec 12;179(7):1469-1482.e11. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2019.11.020.*
* Lind MJ, Brick LA, Gehrman PR, Duncan LE, Gelaye B, Maihofer AX, Nievergelt CM, Nugent NR, Stein MB, Amstadter AB; Psychiatric Genomics Consortium Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.. **Molecular genetic overlap between posttraumatic stress disorder and sleep phenotypes**. *Sleep. 2019 Dec 5. pii: zsz257. doi: 10.1093/sleep/zsz257. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Barbu MC, Zeng Y, Shen X, Cox SR, Clarke TK, Gibson J, Adams MJ, Johnstone M, Haley CS, Lawrie SM, Deary IJ; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; 23andMe Research Team, McIntosh AM, Whalley HC.. **Association of Whole-Genome and NETRIN1 Signaling Pathway-Derived Polygenic Risk Scores for Major Depressive Disorder and White Matter Microstructure in the UK Biobank**. *Biol Psychiatry Cogn Neurosci Neuroimaging. 2019 Jan;4(1):91-100. doi: 10.1016/j.bpsc.2018.07.006. Epub 2018 Jul 31.*
* Bauer AE, Liu X, Byrne EM, Sullivan PF, Wray NR, Agerbo E, Nyegaard M, Grove J, Musliner KL, Ingstrup KG, Johannsen BMW, Mægbæk ML, Wang Y, Nordentoft M, Mors O, Børglum AD, Werge T, Hougaard DM, Mortensen PB, Munk-Olsen T, Meltzer-Brody S.. **Genetic risk scores for major psychiatric disorders and the risk of postpartum psychiatric disorders**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Nov 11;9(1):288. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0629-9.*
* Reinert T, Henriksen TV, Christensen E, Sharma S, Salari R, Sethi H, Knudsen M, Nordentoft I, Wu HT, Tin AS, Heilskov Rasmussen M, Vang S, Shchegrova S, Frydendahl Boll Johansen A, Srinivasan R, Assaf Z, Balcioglu M, Olson A, Dashner S, Hafez D, Navarro S, Goel S, Rabinowitz M, Billings P, Sigurjonsson S, Dyrskjøt L, Swenerton R, Aleshin A, Laurberg S, Husted Madsen A, Kannerup AS, Stribolt K, Palmelund Krag S, Iversen LH, Gotschalck Sunesen K, Lin CJ, Zimmermann BG, Lindbjerg Andersen C.. **Analysis of Plasma Cell-Free DNA by Ultradeep Sequencing in Patients With Stages I to III Colorectal Cancer**. *JAMA Oncol. 2019 May 9;5(8):1124-31. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2019.0528. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Christensen E, Birkenkamp-Demtröder K, Sethi H, Shchegrova S, Salari R, Nordentoft I, Wu HT, Knudsen M, Lamy P, Lindskrog SV, Taber A, Balcioglu M, Vang S, Assaf Z, Sharma S, Tin AS, Srinivasan R, Hafez D, Reinert T, Navarro S, Olson A, Ram R, Dashner S, Rabinowitz M, Billings P, Sigurjonsson S, Andersen CL, Swenerton R, Aleshin A, Zimmermann B, Agerbæk M, Lin CJ, Jensen JB, Dyrskjøt L.. **Early Detection of Metastatic Relapse and Monitoring of Therapeutic Efficacy by Ultra-Deep Sequencing of Plasma Cell-Free DNA in Patients With Urothelial Bladder Carcinoma**. *J Clin Oncol. 2019 Jun 20;37(18):1547-1557. doi: 10.1200/JCO.18.02052. Epub 2019 May 6.*
* Huckins LM, Dobbyn A, Ruderfer DM, Hoffman G, Wang W, Pardiñas AF, Rajagopal VM, Als TD, T Nguyen H, Girdhar K, Boocock J, Roussos P, Fromer M, Kramer R, Domenici E, Gamazon ER, Purcell S; CommonMind Consortium; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; iPSYCH-GEMS Schizophrenia Working Group, Demontis D, Børglum AD, Walters JTR, O'Donovan MC, Sullivan P, Owen MJ, Devlin B, Sieberts SK, Cox NJ, Im HK, Sklar P, Stahl EA.. **Gene expression imputation across multiple brain regions provides insights into schizophrenia risk**. *Nat Genet. 2019 Apr;51(4):659-674. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-0364-4. Epub 2019 Mar 25.*
* Treur JL, Demontis D, Smith GD, Sallis H, Richardson TG, Wiers RW, Børglum AD, Verweij KJH, Munafò MR.. **Investigating causality between liability to ADHD and substance use, and liability to substance use and ADHD risk, using Mendelian randomization**. *Addict Biol. 2019 Nov 16:e12849. doi: 10.1111/adb.12849. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Horsdal HT, Agerbo E, McGrath JJ, Vilhjálmsson BJ, Antonsen S, Closter AM, Timmermann A, Grove J, Mok PLH, Webb RT, Sabel CE, Hertel O, Sigsgaard T, Erikstrup C, Hougaard DM, Werge T, Nordentoft M, Børglum AD, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Brandt J, Geels C, Pedersen CB.. **Association of Childhood Exposure to Nitrogen Dioxide and Polygenic Risk Score for Schizophrenia With the Risk of Developing Schizophrenia**. *JAMA Netw Open. 2019 Nov 1;2(11):e1914401. doi: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2019.14401.*
* Christensen E, Nordentoft I, Vang S, Birkenkamp-Demtröder K, Jensen JB, Agerbæk M, Pedersen JS, Dyrskjøt L.. **Optimized targeted sequencing of cell-free plasma DNA from bladder cancer patients**. *Sci Rep. 2018 Jan 30;8(1):1917. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-20282-8.*
* Wray NR, Ripke S, Mattheisen M, Trzaskowski M, Byrne EM, Abdellaoui A, Adams MJ, Agerbo E, Air TM, Andlauer TMF, Bacanu SA, Bækvad-Hansen M, Beekman AFT, Bigdeli TB, Binder EB, Blackwood DRH, Bryois J, Buttenschøn HN, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Cai N, Castelao E, Christensen JH, Clarke TK, Coleman JIR, Colodro-Conde L, Couvy-Duchesne B, Craddock N, Crawford GE, Crowley CA, Dashti HS, Davies G, Deary IJ, Degenhardt F, Derks EM, Direk N, Dolan CV, Dunn EC, Eley TC, Eriksson N, Escott-Price V, Kiadeh FHF, Finucane HK, Forstner AJ, Frank J, Gaspar HA, Gill M, Giusti-Rodríguez P, Goes FS, Gordon SD, Grove J, Hall LS, Hannon E, Hansen CS, Hansen TF, Herms S, Hickie IB, Hoffmann P, Homuth G, Horn C, Hottenga JJ, Hougaard DM, Hu M, Hyde CL, Ising M, Jansen R, Jin F, Jorgenson E, Knowles JA, Kohane IS, Kraft J, Kretzschmar WW, Krogh J, Kutalik Z, Lane JM, Li Y, Li Y, Lind PA, Liu X, Lu L, MacIntyre DJ, MacKinnon DF, Maier RM, Maier W, Marchini J, Mbarek H, McGrath P, McGuffin P, Medland SE, Mehta D, Middeldorp CM, Mihailov E, Milaneschi Y, Milani L, Mill J, Mondimore FM, Montgomery GW, Mostafavi S, Mullins N, Nauck M, Ng B, et al.. **Genome-wide association analyses identify 44 risk variants and refine the genetic architecture of major depression**. *Nat Genet. 2018 May;50(5):668-681. doi: 10.1038/s41588-018-0090-3. Epub 2018 Apr 26.*
* Árnadóttir SS, Jeppesen M, Lamy P, Bramsen JB, Nordentoft I, Knudsen M, Vang S, Madsen MR, Thastrup O, Thastrup J, L Andersen C.. **Characterization of genetic intratumor heterogeneity in colorectal cancer and matching patient-derived spheroid cultures**. *Mol Oncol. 2018 Jan;12(1):132-147. doi: 10.1002/1878-0261.12156. Epub 2017 Nov 27.*
* Winge SB, Dalgaard MD, Jensen JM, Graem N, Schierup MH, Juul A, Rajpert-De Meyts E, Almstrup K.. **Transcriptome profiling of fetal Klinefelter testis tissue reveals a possible involvement of long non-coding RNAs in gonocyte maturation**. *Hum Mol Genet. 2018 Feb 1;27(3):430-439. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddx411.*
* Winge SB, Dalgaard MD, Belling KG, Jensen JM, Nielsen JE, Aksglaede L, Schierup MH, Brunak S, Skakkebæk NE, Juul A, Rajpert-De Meyts E, Almstrup K.. **Transcriptome analysis of the adult human Klinefelter testis and cellularity-matched controls reveals disturbed differentiation of Sertoli- and Leydig cells**. *Cell Death Dis. 2018 May 22;9(6):586. doi: 10.1038/s41419-018-0671-1.*
* Schmidt L, Møller M, Haldrup C, Strand SH, Vang S, Hedegaard J, Høyer S, Borre M, Ørntoft T, Sørensen KD.. **Exploring the transcriptome of hormone-naive multifocal prostate cancer and matched lymph node metastases**. *Br J Cancer. 2018 Dec;119(12):1527-1537. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0321-5. Epub 2018 Nov 19.*
* Skakkebæk A, Nielsen MM, Trolle C, Vang S, Hornshøj H, Hedegaard J, Wallentin M, Bojesen A, Hertz JM, Fedder J, Østergaard JR, Pedersen JS, Gravholt CH.. **DNA hypermethylation and differential gene expression associated with Klinefelter syndrome**. *Sci Rep. 2018 Sep 13;8(1):13740. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-31780-0.*
* Lucotte EA, Skov L, Jensen JM, Macià MC, Munch K, Schierup MH.. **Dynamic Copy Number Evolution of X- and Y-Linked Ampliconic Genes in Human Populations**. *Genetics. 2018 Jul;209(3):907-920. doi: 10.1534/genetics.118.300826. Epub 2018 May 16.*
* Skov L, Hui R, Shchur V, Hobolth A, Scally A, Schierup MH, Durbin R.. **Detecting archaic introgression using an unadmixed outgroup**. *PLoS Genet. 2018 Sep 18;14(9):e1007641. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1007641. eCollection 2018 Sep.*
* Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Hagen CM, Gonçalves VF, Bækvad-Hansen M, Hansen CS, Hedley PL, Kanters JK, Nielsen J, Theisen M, Mors O, Kennedy J, Als TD, Demur AB, Nordentoft M, Børglum A, Mortensen PB, Werge TM, Hougaard DM, Christiansen M.. **Complex spatio-temporal distribution and genomic ancestry of mitochondrial DNA haplogroups in 24,216 Danes**. *PLoS One. 2018 Dec 13;13(12):e0208829. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0208829. eCollection 2018.*
* Sullivan PF, Agrawal A, Bulik CM, Andreassen OA, Børglum AD, Breen G, Cichon S, Edenberg HJ, Faraone SV, Gelernter J, Mathews CA, Nievergelt CM, Smoller JW, O'Donovan MC; Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Psychiatric Genomics: An Update and an Agenda**. *Am J Psychiatry. 2018 Jan 1;175(1):15-27. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2017.17030283. Epub 2017 Oct 3.*
* Peyrot WJ, Van der Auwera S, Milaneschi Y, Dolan CV, Madden PAF, Sullivan PF, Strohmaier J, Ripke S, Rietschel M, Nivard MG, Mullins N, Montgomery GW, Henders AK, Heat AC, Fisher HL, Dunn EC, Byrne EM, Air TA; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Baune BT, Breen G, Levinson DF, Lewis CM, Martin NG, Nelson EN, Boomsma DI, Grabe HJ, Wray NR, Penninx BWJH.. **Does Childhood Trauma Moderate Polygenic Risk for Depression? A Meta-analysis of 5765 Subjects From the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2018 Jul 15;84(2):138-147. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.09.009. Epub 2017 Sep 21.*
* Hannon E, Schendel D, Ladd-Acosta C, Grove J; iPSYCH-Broad ASD Group, Hansen CS, Andrews SV, Hougaard DM, Bresnahan M, Mors O, Hollegaard MV, Bækvad-Hansen M, Hornig M, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Werge T, Pedersen MG, Nordentoft M, Buxbaum J, Daniele Fallin M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Reichenberg A, Mill J.. **Elevated polygenic burden for autism is associated with differential DNA methylation at birth**. *Genome Med. 2018 Mar 28;10(1):19. doi: 10.1186/s13073-018-0527-4.*
* Bipolar Disorder and Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. Electronic address: douglas.ruderfer@vanderbilt.edu; Bipolar Disorder and Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Genomic Dissection of Bipolar Disorder and Schizophrenia, Including 28 Subphenotypes**. *Cell. 2018 Jun 14;173(7):1705-1715.e16. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2018.05.046.*
* de Jong S, Diniz MJA, Saloma A, Gadelha A, Santoro ML, Ota VK, Noto C; Major Depressive Disorder and Bipolar Disorder Working Groups of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Curtis C, Newhouse SJ, Patel H, Hall LS, O Reilly PF, Belangero SI, Bressan RA, Breen G.. **Applying polygenic risk scoring for psychiatric disorders to a large family with bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder**. *Commun Biol. 2018 Oct 8;1:163. doi: 10.1038/s42003-018-0155-y. eCollection 2018.*
* Matey-Hernandez ML; Danish Pan Genome Consortium, Brunak S, Izarzugaza JMG.. **Benchmarking the HLA typing performance of Polysolver and Optitype in 50 Danish parental trios**. *BMC Bioinformatics. 2018 Jun 25;19(1):239. doi: 10.1186/s12859-018-2239-6.*
* Lindahl LM, Besenbacher S, Rittig AH, Celis P, Willerslev-Olsen A, Gjerdrum LMR, Krejsgaard T, Johansen C, Litman T, Woetmann A, Odum N, Iversen L.. **Prognostic miRNA classifier in early-stage mycosis fungoides: development and validation in a Danish nationwide study**. *Blood. 2018 Feb 15;131(7):759-770. doi: 10.1182/blood-2017-06-788950. Epub 2017 Dec 5.*
* Gandal MJ, Haney JR, Parikshak NN, Leppa V, Ramaswami G, Hartl C, Schork AJ, Appadurai V, Buil A, Werge TM, Liu C, White KP; CommonMind Consortium; PsychENCODE Consortium; iPSYCH-BROAD Working Group, Horvath S, Geschwind DH.. **Shared molecular neuropathology across major psychiatric disorders parallels polygenic overlap**. *Science. 2018 Feb 9;359(6376):693-697. doi: 10.1126/science.aad6469.*
* Velthorst E, Froudist-Walsh S, Stahl E, Ruderfer D, Ivanov I, Buxbaum J; iPSYCH-Broad ASD Group, the IMAGEN consortium, Banaschewski T, Bokde ALW, Dipl-Psych UB, Büchel C, Quinlan EB, Desrivières S, Flor H, Frouin V, Garavan H, Gowland P, Heinz A, Ittermann B, Martinot MP, Artiges E, Nees F, Orfanos DP, Paus T, Poustka L, Hohmann S, Fröhner JH, Smolka MN, Walter H, Whelan R, Schumann G, Reichenberg A.. **Genetic risk for schizophrenia and autism, social impairment and developmental pathways to psychosis**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2018 Sep 26;8(1):204. doi: 10.1038/s41398-018-0229-0.*
* Ni G, Gratten J, Wray NR, Lee SH; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Age at first birth in women is genetically associated with increased risk of schizophrenia**. *Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 5;8(1):10168. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-28160-z.*
* Olsen L, Sparsø T, Weinsheimer SM, Dos Santos MBQ, Mazin W, Rosengren A, Sanchez XC, Hoeffding LK, Schmock H, Baekvad-Hansen M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Daly MJ, Neale BM, Pedersen MG, Agerbo E, Mors O, Børglum A, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Mortensen PB, Geschwind DH, Pedersen C, Thompson WK, Werge T.. **Prevalence of rearrangements in the 22q11.2 region and population-based risk of neuropsychiatric and developmental disorders in a Danish population: a case-cohort study**. *Lancet Psychiatry. 2018 Jul;5(7):573-580. doi: 10.1016/S2215-0366(18)30168-8. Epub 2018 Jun 7.*
* Hagen CM, Gonçalves VF, Hedley PL, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Hansen CS, Kanters JK, Nielsen J, Mors O, Demur AB, Als TD, Nordentoft M, Børglum A, Mortensen PB, Kennedy J, Werge TM, Hougaard DM, Christiansen M.. **Schizophrenia-associated mt-DNA SNPs exhibit highly variable haplogroup affiliation and nuclear ancestry: Bi-genomic dependence raises major concerns for link to disease**. *PLoS One. 2018 Dec 10;13(12):e0208828. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0208828. eCollection 2018.*
* Ganna A, Satterstrom FK, Zekavat SM, Das I, Kurki MI, Churchhouse C, Alfoldi J, Martin AR, Havulinna AS, Byrnes A, Thompson WK, Nielsen PR, Karczewski KJ, Saarentaus E, Rivas MA, Gupta N, Pietiläinen O, Emdin CA, Lescai F, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Flannick J; GoT2D/T2D-GENES Consortium, Mercader JM, Udler M; SIGMA Consortium Helmsley IBD Exome Sequencing Project; FinMetSeq Consortium; iPSYCH-Broad Consortium, Laakso M, Salomaa V, Hultman C, Ripatti S, Hämäläinen E, Moilanen JS, Körkkö J, Kuismin O, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Mors O, Werge T, Mortensen PB, MacArthur D, Daly MJ, Sullivan PF, Locke AE, Palotie A, Børglum AD, Kathiresan S, Neale BM.. **Quantifying the Impact of Rare and Ultra-rare Coding Variation across the Phenotypic Spectrum**. *Am J Hum Genet. 2018 Jun 7;102(6):1204-1211. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.05.002. Epub 2018 May 31.*
* Paternoster V, Rajkumar AP, Nyengaard JR, Børglum AD, Grove J, Christensen JH.. **The importance of data structure in statistical analysis of dendritic spine morphology**. *J Neurosci Methods. 2018 Feb 15;296:93-98. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.12.022. Epub 2017 Dec 26.*
* Qvist P, Eskildsen SF, Hansen B, Baragji M, Ringgaard S, Roovers J, Paternoster V, Molgaard S, Corydon TJ, Stødkilde-Jørgensen H, Glerup S, Mors O, Wegener G, Nyengaard JR, Børglum AD, Christensen JH.. **Brain volumetric alterations accompanied with loss of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons and cortical parvalbumin expressing interneurons in Brd1(+/-) mice**. *Sci Rep. 2018 Nov 7;8(1):16486. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-34729-5.*
* Birkenkamp-Demtröder K, Christensen E, Nordentoft I, Knudsen M, Taber A, Høyer S, Lamy P, Agerbæk M, Jensen JB, Dyrskjøt L.. **Monitoring Treatment Response and Metastatic Relapse in Advanced Bladder Cancer by Liquid Biopsy Analysis**. *Eur Urol. 2018 Apr;73(4):535-540. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2017.09.011. Epub 2017 Sep 27.*
* Bak ST, Staunstrup NH, Starnawska A, Daugaard TF, Nyengaard JR, Nyegaard M, Børglum A, Mors O, Dorph-Petersen KA, Nielsen AL.. **Evaluating the Feasibility of DNA Methylation Analyses Using Long-Term Archived Brain Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Samples**. *Mol Neurobiol. 2018 Jan;55(1):668-681. doi: 10.1007/s12035-016-0345-x. Epub 2016 Dec 19.*
* Martin J, Walters RK, Demontis D, Mattheisen M, Lee SH, Robinson E, Brikell I, Ghirardi L, Larsson H, Lichtenstein P, Eriksson N; 23andMe Research Team; Psychiatric Genomics Consortium: ADHD Subgroup; iPSYCH–Broad ADHD Workgroup, Werge T, Mortensen PB, Pedersen MG, Mors O, Nordentoft M, Hougaard DM, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Wray NR, Franke B, Faraone SV, O'Donovan MC, Thapar A, Børglum AD, Neale BM.. **A Genetic Investigation of Sex Bias in the Prevalence of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2018 Jun 15;83(12):1044-1053. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.11.026. Epub 2017 Dec 2.*
* Warrier V, Toro R, Chakrabarti B; iPSYCH-Broad autism group, Børglum AD, Grove J; 23andMe Research Team, Hinds DA, Bourgeron T, Baron-Cohen S.. **Genome-wide analyses of self-reported empathy: correlations with autism, schizophrenia, and anorexia nervosa**. *Transl Psychiatry. 2018 Mar 12;8(1):35. doi: 10.1038/s41398-017-0082-6.*
* Brainstorm Consortium, Anttila V, Bulik-Sullivan B, Finucane HK, Walters RK, Bras J, Duncan L, Escott-Price V, Falcone GJ, Gormley P, Malik R, Patsopoulos NA, Ripke S, Wei Z, Yu D, Lee PH, Turley P, Grenier-Boley B, Chouraki V, Kamatani Y, Berr C, Letenneur L, Hannequin D, Amouyel P, Boland A, Deleuze JF, Duron E, Vardarajan BN, Reitz C, Goate AM, Huentelman MJ, Kamboh MI, Larson EB, Rogaeva E, St George-Hyslop P, Hakonarson H, Kukull WA, Farrer LA, Barnes LL, Beach TG, Demirci FY, Head E, Hulette CM, Jicha GA, Kauwe JSK, Kaye JA, Leverenz JB, Levey AI, Lieberman AP, Pankratz VS, Poon WW, Quinn JF, Saykin AJ, Schneider LS, Smith AG, Sonnen JA, Stern RA, Van Deerlin VM, Van Eldik LJ, Harold D, Russo G, Rubinsztein DC, Bayer A, Tsolaki M, Proitsi P, Fox NC, Hampel H, Owen MJ, Mead S, Passmore P, Morgan K, Nöthen MM, Rossor M, Lupton MK, Hoffmann P, Kornhuber J, Lawlor B, McQuillin A, Al-Chalabi A, Bis JC, Ruiz A, Boada M, Seshadri S, Beiser A, Rice K, van der Lee SJ, De Jager PL, Geschwind DH, Riemenschneider M, Riedel-Heller S, Rotter JI, Ransmayr G, Hyman BT, Cruchaga C, Alegret M, Winsvold B, Palta P, Farh KH, Cuenca-Leon E, Furlotte N, et al.. **Analysis of shared heritability in common disorders of the brain**. *Science. 2018 Jun 22;360(6395):eaap8757. doi: 10.1126/science.aap8757.*
* Ludvigsen M, Bjerregård Pedersen M, Lystlund Lauridsen K, Svenstrup Poulsen T, Hamilton-Dutoit SJ, Besenbacher S, Bendix K, Møller MB, Nørgaard P, d'Amore F, Honoré B.. **Proteomic profiling identifies outcome-predictive markers in patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified**. *Blood Adv. 2018 Oct 9;2(19):2533-2542. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2018019893.*
* Erlangsen A, Appadurai V, Wang Y, Turecki G, Mors O, Werge T, Mortensen PB, Starnawska A, Børglum AD, Schork A, Nudel R, Bækvad-Hansen M, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Hougaard DM, Thompson WK, Nordentoft M, Agerbo E.. **Genetics of suicide attempts in individuals with and without mental disorders: a population-based genome-wide association study**. *Mol Psychiatry. 2018 Aug 16. doi: 10.1038/s41380-018-0218-y. doi: 10.1038/s41380-018-0218-y. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Bertl J, Guo Q, Juul M, Besenbacher S, Nielsen MM, Hornshøj H, Pedersen JS, Hobolth A.. **A site specific model and analysis of the neutral somatic mutation rate in whole-genome cancer data**. *BMC Bioinformatics. 2018 Apr 19;19(1):147. doi: 10.1186/s12859-018-2141-2.*
* Pardiñas AF, Holmans P, Pocklington AJ, Escott-Price V, Ripke S, Carrera N, Legge SE, Bishop S, Cameron D, Hamshere ML, Han J, Hubbard L, Lynham A, Mantripragada K, Rees E, MacCabe JH, McCarroll SA, Baune BT, Breen G, Byrne EM, Dannlowski U, Eley TC, Hayward C, Martin NG, McIntosh AM, Plomin R, Porteous DJ, Wray NR, Caballero A, Geschwind DH, Huckins LM, Ruderfer DM, Santiago E, Sklar P, Stahl EA, Won H, Agerbo E, Als TD, Andreassen OA, Bækvad-Hansen M, Mortensen PB, Pedersen CB, Børglum AD, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Djurovic S, Durmishi N, Pedersen MG, Golimbet V, Grove J, Hougaard DM, Mattheisen M, Molden E, Mors O, Nordentoft M, Pejovic-Milovancevic M, Sigurdsson E, Silagadze T, Hansen CS, Stefansson K, Stefansson H, Steinberg S, Tosato S, Werge T; GERAD1 Consortium; CRESTAR Consortium, Collier DA, Rujescu D, Kirov G, Owen MJ, O'Donovan MC, Walters JTR.. **Common schizophrenia alleles are enriched in mutation-intolerant genes and in regions under strong background selection**. *Nat Genet. 2018 Mar;50(3):381-389. doi: 10.1038/s41588-018-0059-2. Epub 2018 Feb 26.*
* Eyles DW, Trzaskowski M, Vinkhuyzen AAE, Mattheisen M, Meier S, Gooch H, Anggono V, Cui X, Tan MC, Burne THJ, Jang SE, Kvaskoff D, Hougaard DM, Nørgaard-Pedersen B, Cohen A, Agerbo E, Pedersen CB, Børglum AD, Mors O, Sah P, Wray NR, Mortensen PB, McGrath JJ.. **The association between neonatal vitamin D status and risk of schizophrenia**. *Sci Rep. 2018 Dec 6;8(1):17692. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-35418-z.*
* Ni G, Moser G; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Wray NR, Lee SH.. **Estimation of Genetic Correlation via Linkage Disequilibrium Score Regression and Genomic Restricted Maximum Likelihood**. *Am J Hum Genet. 2018 Jun 7;102(6):1185-1194. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.03.021. Epub 2018 May 10.*
* Duan J, Sanggaard KW, Schauser L, Lauridsen SE, Enghild JJ, Schierup MH, Wang T.. **Transcriptome analysis of the response of Burmese python to digestion**. *Gigascience. 2017 Aug 1;6(8):1-18. doi: 10.1093/gigascience/gix057.*
* Okholm TLH, Nielsen MM, Hamilton MP, Christensen LL, Vang S, Hedegaard J, Hansen TB, Kjems J, Dyrskjøt L, Pedersen JS.. **Circular RNA expression is abundant and correlated to aggressiveness in early-stage bladder cancer**. *NPJ Genom Med. 2017 Nov 28;2:36. doi: 10.1038/s41525-017-0038-z. eCollection 2017.*
* Power RA, Tansey KE, Buttenschøn HN, Cohen-Woods S, Bigdeli T, Hall LS, Kutalik Z, Lee SH, Ripke S, Steinberg S, Teumer A, Viktorin A, Wray NR, Arolt V, Baune BT, Boomsma DI, Børglum AD, Byrne EM, Castelao E, Craddock N, Craig IW, Dannlowski U, Deary IJ, Degenhardt F, Forstner AJ, Gordon SD, Grabe HJ, Grove J, Hamilton SP, Hayward C, Heath AC, Hocking LJ, Homuth G, Hottenga JJ, Kloiber S, Krogh J, Landén M, Lang M, Levinson DF, Lichtenstein P, Lucae S, MacIntyre DJ, Madden P, Magnusson PKE, Martin NG, McIntosh AM, Middeldorp CM, Milaneschi Y, Montgomery GW, Mors O, Müller-Myhsok B, Nyholt DR, Oskarsson H, Owen MJ, Padmanabhan S, Penninx BWJH, Pergadia ML, Porteous DJ, Potash JB, Preisig M, Rivera M, Shi J, Shyn SI, Sigurdsson E, Smit JH, Smith BH, Stefansson H, Stefansson K, Strohmaier J, Sullivan PF, Thomson P, Thorgeirsson TE, Van der Auwera S, Weissman MM; CONVERGE Consortium, CARDIoGRAM Consortium, GERAD1 Consortium, Breen G, Lewis CM.. **Genome-wide Association for Major Depression Through Age at Onset Stratification: Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2017 Feb 15;81(4):325-335. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2016.05.010. Epub 2016 May 24.*
* Joshi PK, Pirastu N, Kentistou KA, Fischer K, Hofer E, Schraut KE, Clark DW, Nutile T, Barnes CLK, Timmers PRHJ, Shen X, Gandin I, McDaid AF, Hansen TF, Gordon SD, Giulianini F, Boutin TS, Abdellaoui A, Zhao W, Medina-Gomez C, Bartz TM, Trompet S, Lange LA, Raffield L, van der Spek A, Galesloot TE, Proitsi P, Yanek LR, Bielak LF, Payton A, Murgia F, Concas MP, Biino G, Tajuddin SM, Seppälä I, Amin N, Boerwinkle E, Børglum AD, Campbell A, Demerath EW, Demuth I, Faul JD, Ford I, Gialluisi A, Gögele M, Graff M, Hingorani A, Hottenga JJ, Hougaard DM, Hurme MA, Ikram MA, Jylhä M, Kuh D, Ligthart L, Lill CM, Lindenberger U, Lumley T, Mägi R, Marques-Vidal P, Medland SE, Milani L, Nagy R, Ollier WER, Peyser PA, Pramstaller PP, Ridker PM, Rivadeneira F, Ruggiero D, Saba Y, Schmidt R, Schmidt H, Slagboom PE, Smith BH, Smith JA, Sotoodehnia N, Steinhagen-Thiessen E, van Rooij FJA, Verbeek AL, Vermeulen SH, Vollenweider P, Wang Y, Werge T, Whitfield JB, Zonderman AB, Lehtimäki T, Evans MK, Pirastu M, Fuchsberger C, Bertram L, Pendleton N, Kardia SLR, Ciullo M, Becker DM, Wong A, Psaty BM, van Duijn CM, Wilson JG, Jukema JW, Kiemeney L, Uitterlinden AG, et al.. **Genome-wide meta-analysis associates HLA-DQA1/DRB1 and LPA and lifestyle factors with human longevity**. *Nat Commun. 2017 Oct 13;8(1):910. doi: 10.1038/s41467-017-00934-5.*
* Laursen TM, Trabjerg BB, Mors O, Børglum AD, Hougaard DM, Mattheisen M, Meier SM, Byrne EM, Mortensen PB, Munk-Olsen T, Agerbo E.. **Association of the polygenic risk score for schizophrenia with mortality and suicidal behavior - A Danish population-based study**. *Schizophr Res. 2017 Jun;184:122-127. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2016.12.001. Epub 2016 Dec 6.*
* Thomsen MBH, Nordentoft I, Lamy P, Vang S, Reinert L, Mapendano CK, Høyer S, Ørntoft TF, Jensen JB, Dyrskjøt L.. **Comprehensive multiregional analysis of molecular heterogeneity in bladder cancer**. *Sci Rep. 2017 Sep 15;7(1):11702. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-11291-0.*
* Bramsen JB, Rasmussen MH, Ongen H, Mattesen TB, Ørntoft MW, Árnadóttir SS, Sandoval J, Laguna T, Vang S, Øster B, Lamy P, Madsen MR, Laurberg S, Esteller M, Dermitzakis ET, Ørntoft TF, Andersen CL.. **Molecular-Subtype-Specific Biomarkers Improve Prediction of Prognosis in Colorectal Cancer**. *Cell Rep. 2017 May 9;19(6):1268-1280. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.04.045.*
* Bechsgaard J, Jorgensen TH, Schierup MH.. **Evidence for Adaptive Introgression of Disease Resistance Genes Among Closely Related Arabidopsis Species**. *G3 (Bethesda). 2017 Aug 7;7(8):2677-2683. doi: 10.1534/g3.117.043984.*
* Schøler LV, Reinert T, Ørntoft MW, Kassentoft CG, Árnadóttir SS, Vang S, Nordentoft I, Knudsen M, Lamy P, Andreasen D, Mortensen FV, Knudsen AR, Stribolt K, Sivesgaard K, Mouritzen P, Nielsen HJ, Laurberg S, Ørntoft TF, Andersen CL.. **Clinical Implications of Monitoring Circulating Tumor DNA in Patients with Colorectal Cancer**. *Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Sep 15;23(18):5437-5445. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-0510. Epub 2017 Jun 9.*
* Jónsson H, Sulem P, Kehr B, Kristmundsdottir S, Zink F, Hjartarson E, Hardarson MT, Hjorleifsson KE, Eggertsson HP, Gudjonsson SA, Ward LD, Arnadottir GA, Helgason EA, Helgason H, Gylfason A, Jonasdottir A, Jonasdottir A, Rafnar T, Besenbacher S, Frigge ML, Stacey SN, Magnusson OT, Thorsteinsdottir U, Masson G, Kong A, Halldorsson BV, Helgason A, Gudbjartsson DF, Stefansson K.. **Whole genome characterization of sequence diversity of 15,220 Icelanders**. *Sci Data. 2017 Sep 21;4:170115. doi: 10.1038/sdata.2017.115.*
* Weiner DJ, Wigdor EM, Ripke S, Walters RK, Kosmicki JA, Grove J, Samocha KE, Goldstein JI, Okbay A, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Werge T, Hougaard DM, Taylor J; iPSYCH-Broad Autism Group; Psychiatric Genomics Consortium Autism Group, Skuse D, Devlin B, Anney R, Sanders SJ, Bishop S, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Smith GD, Daly MJ, Robinson EB.. **Polygenic transmission disequilibrium confirms that common and rare variation act additively to create risk for autism spectrum disorders**. *Nat Genet. 2017 Jul;49(7):978-985. doi: 10.1038/ng.3863. Epub 2017 May 15.*
* Autism Spectrum Disorders Working Group of The Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Meta-analysis of GWAS of over 16,000 individuals with autism spectrum disorder highlights a novel locus at 10q24.32 and a significant overlap with schizophrenia**. *Mol Autism. 2017 May 22;8:21. doi: 10.1186/s13229-017-0137-9. eCollection 2017.*
* Gravholt CH, Dollerup OL, Duval L, Mejlgaard E, Stribolt K, Vang S, Laursen BE, Knudsen M, Thorsen K, Hersmus R, Looijenga LHJ, Stochholm K.. **A Rare Case of Embryonal Carcinoma in a Patient with Turner Syndrome without Y Chromosomal Material but Mutations in KIT, AKT1, and ZNF358 Demonstrated Using Exome Sequencing**. *Sex Dev. 2017;11(5-6):262-268. doi: 10.1159/000484398. Epub 2017 Dec 2.*
* McLaughlin RL, Schijven D, van Rheenen W, van Eijk KR, O'Brien M, Kahn RS, Ophoff RA, Goris A, Bradley DG, Al-Chalabi A, van den Berg LH, Luykx JJ, Hardiman O, Veldink JH; Project MinE GWAS Consortium; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Genetic correlation between amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and schizophrenia**. *Nat Commun. 2017 Mar 21;8:14774. doi: 10.1038/ncomms14774.*
* Milaneschi Y, Lamers F, Peyrot WJ, Baune BT, Breen G, Dehghan A, Forstner AJ, Grabe HJ, Homuth G, Kan C, Lewis C, Mullins N, Nauck M, Pistis G, Preisig M, Rivera M, Rietschel M, Streit F, Strohmaier J, Teumer A, Van der Auwera S, Wray NR, Boomsma DI, Penninx BWJH; CHARGE Inflammation Working Group and the Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Genetic Association of Major Depression With Atypical Features and Obesity-Related Immunometabolic Dysregulations**. *JAMA Psychiatry. 2017 Dec 1;74(12):1214-1225. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2017.3016.*
* Qvist P, Rajkumar AP, Redrobe JP, Nyegaard M, Christensen JH, Mors O, Wegener G, Didriksen M, Børglum AD.. **Mice heterozygous for an inactivated allele of the schizophrenia associated Brd1 gene display selective cognitive deficits with translational relevance to schizophrenia**. *Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2017 May;141:44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.nlm.2017.03.009. Epub 2017 Mar 21.*
* Prüfer K, de Filippo C, Grote S, Mafessoni F, Korlević P, Hajdinjak M, Vernot B, Skov L, Hsieh P, Peyrégne S, Reher D, Hopfe C, Nagel S, Maricic T, Fu Q, Theunert C, Rogers R, Skoglund P, Chintalapati M, Dannemann M, Nelson BJ, Key FM, Rudan P, Kućan Ž, Gušić I, Golovanova LV, Doronichev VB, Patterson N, Reich D, Eichler EE, Slatkin M, Schierup MH, Andrés AM, Kelso J, Meyer M, Pääbo S.. **A high-coverage Neandertal genome from Vindija Cave in Croatia**. *Science. 2017 Nov 3;358(6363):655-658. doi: 10.1126/science.aao1887. Epub 2017 Oct 5.*
* Starnawska A, Tan Q, McGue M, Mors O, Børglum AD, Christensen K, Nyegaard M, Christiansen L.. **Epigenome-Wide Association Study of Cognitive Functioning in Middle-Aged Monozygotic Twins**. *Front Aging Neurosci. 2017 Dec 12;9:413. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2017.00413. eCollection 2017.*
* Søndergaard D, Nielsen S, Pedersen CNS, Besenbacher S.. **Prediction of Primary Tumors in Cancers of Unknown Primary**. *J Integr Bioinform. 2017 Jul 7;14(2):20170013. doi: 10.1515/jib-2017-0013.*
* Eriksen PL, Kreutzfeldt M, Grønbaek H, Thorsen K, Vang S, Jessen N, Vilstrup H.. **Enrichment of Genetic Variants in the Glucocorticoid Receptor Signalling Pathway in Autoimmune Hepatitis with Failure of Standard Treatment**. *Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2017 Sep;121(3):189-194. doi: 10.1111/bcpt.12788. Epub 2017 May 18.*
* Mortensen LM, Lundbye-Christensen S, Schmidt EB, Calder PC, Schierup MH, Tjønneland A, Parner ET, Overvad K.. **Long-chain n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids and risk of atrial fibrillation: Results from a Danish cohort study**. *PLoS One. 2017 Dec 22;12(12):e0190262. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190262. eCollection 2017.*
* Palmgren M, Engström K, Hallström BM, Wahlberg K, Søndergaard DA, Säll T, Vahter M, Broberg K.. **AS3MT-mediated tolerance to arsenic evolved by multiple independent horizontal gene transfers from bacteria to eukaryotes**. *PLoS One. 2017 Apr 20;12(4):e0175422. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175422. eCollection 2017.*
* Rietschel L, Streit F, Zhu G, McAloney K, Frank J, Couvy-Duchesne B, Witt SH, Binz TM; CORtisolNETwork (CORNET) Consortium; Major Depressive Disorder Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC), McGrath J, Hickie IB, Hansell NK, Wright MJ, Gillespie NA, Forstner AJ, Schulze TG, Wüst S, Nöthen MM, Baumgartner MR, Walker BR, Crawford AA, Colodro-Conde L, Medland SE, Martin NG, Rietschel M.. **Hair Cortisol in Twins: Heritability and Genetic Overlap with Psychological Variables and Stress-System Genes**. *Sci Rep. 2017 Nov 10;7(1):15351. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-11852-3.*
* Qvist P, Christensen JH, Vardya I, Rajkumar AP, Mørk A, Paternoster V, Füchtbauer EM, Pallesen J, Fryland T, Dyrvig M, Hauberg ME, Lundsberg B, Fejgin K, Nyegaard M, Jensen K, Nyengaard JR, Mors O, Didriksen M, Børglum AD.. **The Schizophrenia-Associated BRD1 Gene Regulates Behavior, Neurotransmission, and Expression of Schizophrenia Risk Enriched Gene Sets in Mice**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2017 Jul 1;82(1):62-76. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2016.08.037. Epub 2016 Sep 15.*
* Jensen JM, Villesen P, Friborg RM; Danish Pan-Genome Consortium, Mailund T, Besenbacher S, Schierup MH.. **Assembly and analysis of 100 full MHC haplotypes from the Danish population**. *Genome Res. 2017 Sep;27(9):1597-1607. doi: 10.1101/gr.218891.116. Epub 2017 Aug 3.*
* Dyrvig M, Qvist P, Lichota J, Larsen K, Nyegaard M, Børglum AD, Christensen JH.. **DNA Methylation Analysis of BRD1 Promoter Regions and the Schizophrenia rs138880 Risk Allele**. *PLoS One. 2017 Jan 17;12(1):e0170121. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170121. eCollection 2017.*
* Bolund ACS, Starnawska A, Miller MR, Schlünssen V, Backer V, Børglum AD, Christensen K, Tan Q, Christiansen L, Sigsgaard T.. **Lung function discordance in monozygotic twins and associated differences in blood DNA methylation**. *Clin Epigenetics. 2017 Dec 21;9:132. doi: 10.1186/s13148-017-0427-2. eCollection 2017.*
* Maretty L, Jensen JM, Petersen B, Sibbesen JA, Liu S, Villesen P, Skov L, Belling K, Theil Have C, Izarzugaza JMG, Grosjean M, Bork-Jensen J, Grove J, Als TD, Huang S, Chang Y, Xu R, Ye W, Rao J, Guo X, Sun J, Cao H, Ye C, van Beusekom J, Espeseth T, Flindt E, Friborg RM, Halager AE, Le Hellard S, Hultman CM, Lescai F, Li S, Lund O, Løngren P, Mailund T, Matey-Hernandez ML, Mors O, Pedersen CNS, Sicheritz-Pontén T, Sullivan P, Syed A, Westergaard D, Yadav R, Li N, Xu X, Hansen T, Krogh A, Bolund L, Sørensen TIA, Pedersen O, Gupta R, Rasmussen S, Besenbacher S, Børglum AD, Wang J, Eiberg H, Kristiansen K, Brunak S, Schierup MH.. **Sequencing and de novo assembly of 150 genomes from Denmark as a population reference**. *Nature. 2017 Aug 3;548(7665):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature23264. Epub 2017 Jul 26.*
* Rajkumar AP, Horsdal HT, Wimberley T, Cohen D, Mors O, Børglum AD, Gasse C.. **Endogenous and Antipsychotic-Related Risks for Diabetes Mellitus in Young People With Schizophrenia: A Danish Population-Based Cohort Study**. *Am J Psychiatry. 2017 Jul 1;174(7):686-694. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2016.16040442. Epub 2017 Jan 20.*
* Direk N, Williams S, Smith JA, Ripke S, Air T, Amare AT, Amin N, Baune BT, Bennett DA, Blackwood DHR, Boomsma D, Breen G, Buttenschøn HN, Byrne EM, Børglum AD, Castelao E, Cichon S, Clarke TK, Cornelis MC, Dannlowski U, De Jager PL, Demirkan A, Domenici E, van Duijn CM, Dunn EC, Eriksson JG, Esko T, Faul JD, Ferrucci L, Fornage M, de Geus E, Gill M, Gordon SD, Grabe HJ, van Grootheest G, Hamilton SP, Hartman CA, Heath AC, Hek K, Hofman A, Homuth G, Horn C, Jan Hottenga J, Kardia SLR, Kloiber S, Koenen K, Kutalik Z, Ladwig KH, Lahti J, Levinson DF, Lewis CM, Lewis G, Li QS, Llewellyn DJ, Lucae S, Lunetta KL, MacIntyre DJ, Madden P, Martin NG, McIntosh AM, Metspalu A, Milaneschi Y, Montgomery GW, Mors O, Mosley TH Jr, Murabito JM, Müller-Myhsok B, Nöthen MM, Nyholt DR, O'Donovan MC, Penninx BW, Pergadia ML, Perlis R, Potash JB, Preisig M, Purcell SM, Quiroz JA, Räikkönen K, Rice JP, Rietschel M, Rivera M, Schulze TG, Shi J, Shyn S, Sinnamon GC, Smit JH, Smoller JW, Snieder H, Tanaka T, Tansey KE, Teumer A, Uher R, Umbricht D, Van der Auwera S, Ware EB, Weir DR, Weissman MM, Willemsen G, Yang J, Zhao W, et al.. **An Analysis of Two Genome-wide Association Meta-analyses Identifies a New Locus for Broad Depression Phenotype**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2017 Sep 1;82(5):322-329. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2016.11.013. Epub 2016 Dec 8.*
* Skov L; Danish Pan Genome Consortium, Schierup MH.. **Analysis of 62 hybrid assembled human Y chromosomes exposes rapid structural changes and high rates of gene conversion**. *PLoS Genet. 2017 Aug 28;13(8):e1006834. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006834. eCollection 2017 Aug.*
* Amidi A, Agerbæk M, Wu LM, Pedersen AD, Mehlsen M, Clausen CR, Demontis D, Børglum AD, Harbøll A, Zachariae R.. **Changes in cognitive functions and cerebral grey matter and their associations with inflammatory markers, endocrine markers, and APOE genotypes in testicular cancer patients undergoing treatment**. *Brain Imaging Behav. 2017 Jun;11(3):769-783. doi: 10.1007/s11682-016-9552-3.*
* Nam K, Munch K, Mailund T, Nater A, Greminger MP, Krützen M, Marquès-Bonet T, Schierup MH.. **Evidence that the rate of strong selective sweeps increases with population size in the great apes**. *Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Feb 14;114(7):1613-1618. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1605660114. Epub 2017 Jan 30.*
* Munch K, Nam K, Schierup MH, Mailund T.. **Selective Sweeps across Twenty Millions Years of Primate Evolution**. *Mol Biol Evol. 2016 Dec;33(12):3065-3074. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msw199. Epub 2016 Sep 22.*
* Bolton KL, Tyrer J, Song H, Ramus SJ, Notaridou M, Jones C, Sher T, Gentry-Maharaj A, Wozniak E, Tsai YY, Weidhaas J, Paik D, Van Den Berg DJ, Stram DO, Pearce CL, Wu AH, Brewster W, Anton-Culver H, Ziogas A, Narod SA, Levine DA, Kaye SB, Brown R, Paul J, Flanagan J, Sieh W, McGuire V, Whittemore AS, Campbell I, Gore ME, Lissowska J, Yang HP, Medrek K, Gronwald J, Lubinski J, Jakubowska A, Le ND, Cook LS, Kelemen LE, Brooks-Wilson A, Massuger LF, Kiemeney LA, Aben KK, van Altena AM, Houlston R, Tomlinson I, Palmieri RT, Moorman PG, Schildkraut J, Iversen ES, Phelan C, Vierkant RA, Cunningham JM, Goode EL, Fridley BL, Kruger-Kjaer S, Blaeker J, Hogdall E, Hogdall C, Gross J, Karlan BY, Ness RB, Edwards RP, Odunsi K, Moyisch KB, Baker JA, Modugno F, Heikkinenen T, Butzow R, Nevanlinna H, Leminen A, Bogdanova N, Antonenkova N, Doerk T, Hillemanns P, Dürst M, Runnebaum I, Thompson PJ, Carney ME, Goodman MT, Lurie G, Wang-Gohrke S, Hein R, Chang-Claude J, Rossing MA, Cushing-Haugen KL, Doherty J, Chen C, Rafnar T, Besenbacher S, Sulem P, Stefansson K, Birrer MJ, Terry KL, Hernandez D, Cramer DW, Vergote I, Amant F, Lambrechts D, Despierre E, et al.. **Corrigendum: Common variants at 19p13 are associated with susceptibility to ovarian cancer**. *Nat Genet. 2016 Jan;48(1):101. doi: 10.1038/ng0116-101b.*
* Athanasiadis G, Jørgensen FG, Cheng JY, Kjærgaard PC, Schierup MH, Mailund T.. **Spitting for Science: Danish High School Students Commit to a Large-Scale Self-Reported Genetic Study**. *PLoS One. 2016 Aug 29;11(8):e0161822. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0161822. eCollection 2016.*
* Athanasiadis G, Cheng JY, Vilhjálmsson BJ, Jørgensen FG, Als TD, Le Hellard S, Espeseth T, Sullivan PF, Hultman CM, Kjærgaard PC, Schierup MH, Mailund T.. **Nationwide Genomic Study in Denmark Reveals Remarkable Population Homogeneity**. *Genetics. 2016 Oct;204(2):711-722. doi: 10.1534/genetics.116.189241. Epub 2016 Aug 17.*
* Haldrup C, Lynnerup AS, Storebjerg TM, Vang S, Wild P, Visakorpi T, Arsov C, Schulz WA, Lindberg J, Grönberg H, Egevad L, Borre M, Ørntoft TF, Høyer S, Sørensen KD.. **Large-scale evaluation of SLC18A2 in prostate cancer reveals diagnostic and prognostic biomarker potential at three molecular levels**. *Mol Oncol. 2016 Jun;10(6):825-37. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2016.02.001. Epub 2016 Feb 9.*
* Shah N, Hirakawa H, Kusakabe S, Sandal N, Stougaard J, Schierup MH, Sato S, Andersen SU.. **High-resolution genetic maps of Lotus japonicus and L. burttii based on re-sequencing of recombinant inbred lines**. *DNA Res. 2016 Jul 3;23(5):487-94. doi: 10.1093/dnares/dsw033. [Epub ahead of print]*
* Stevison LS, Woerner AE, Kidd JM, Kelley JL, Veeramah KR, McManus KF; Great Ape Genome Project, Bustamante CD, Hammer MF, Wall JD.. **The Time Scale of Recombination Rate Evolution in Great Apes**. *Mol Biol Evol. 2016 Apr;33(4):928-45. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msv331. Epub 2015 Dec 15.*
* Lobon I, Tucci S, de Manuel M, Ghirotto S, Benazzo A, Prado-Martinez J, Lorente-Galdos B, Nam K, Dabad M, Hernandez-Rodriguez J, Comas D, Navarro A, Schierup MH, Andres AM, Barbujani G, Hvilsom C, Marques-Bonet T.. **Demographic History of the Genus Pan Inferred from Whole Mitochondrial Genome Reconstructions**. *Genome Biol Evol. 2016 Jul 3;8(6):2020-30. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evw124.*
* Damas ND, Marcatti M, Côme C, Christensen LL, Nielsen MM, Baumgartner R, Gylling HM, Maglieri G, Rundsten CF, Seemann SE, Rapin N, Thézenas S, Vang S, Ørntoft T, Andersen CL, Pedersen JS, Lund AH.. **SNHG5 promotes colorectal cancer cell survival by counteracting STAU1-mediated mRNA destabilization**. *Nat Commun. 2016 Dec 22;7:13875. doi: 10.1038/ncomms13875.*
* Reinert T, Schøler LV, Thomsen R, Tobiasen H, Vang S, Nordentoft I, Lamy P, Kannerup AS, Mortensen FV, Stribolt K, Hamilton-Dutoit S, Nielsen HJ, Laurberg S, Pallisgaard N, Pedersen JS, Ørntoft TF, Andersen CL.. **Analysis of circulating tumour DNA to monitor disease burden following colorectal cancer surgery**. *Gut. 2016 Apr;65(4):625-34. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-308859. Epub 2015 Feb 4.*
* Christensen LL, True K, Hamilton MP, Nielsen MM, Damas ND, Damgaard CK, Ongen H, Dermitzakis E, Bramsen JB, Pedersen JS, Lund AH, Vang S, Stribolt K, Madsen MR, Laurberg S, McGuire SE, Ørntoft TF, Andersen CL.. **SNHG16 is regulated by the Wnt pathway in colorectal cancer and affects genes involved in lipid metabolism**. *Mol Oncol. 2016 Oct;10(8):1266-82. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2016.06.003. Epub 2016 Jun 26.*
* Besenbacher S, Sulem P, Helgason A, Helgason H, Kristjansson H, Jonasdottir A, Jonasdottir A, Magnusson OT, Thorsteinsdottir U, Masson G, Kong A, Gudbjartsson DF, Stefansson K.. **Multi-nucleotide de novo Mutations in Humans**. *PLoS Genet. 2016 Nov 15;12(11):e1006315. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006315. eCollection 2016 Nov.*
* Hedegaard J, Lamy P, Nordentoft I, Algaba F, Høyer S, Ulhøi BP, Vang S, Reinert T, Hermann GG, Mogensen K, Thomsen MBH, Nielsen MM, Marquez M, Segersten U, Aine M, Höglund M, Birkenkamp-Demtröder K, Fristrup N, Borre M, Hartmann A, Stöhr R, Wach S, Keck B, Seitz AK, Nawroth R, Maurer T, Tulic C, Simic T, Junker K, Horstmann M, Harving N, Petersen AC, Calle ML, Steyerberg EW, Beukers W, van Kessel KEM, Jensen JB, Pedersen JS, Malmström PU, Malats N, Real FX, Zwarthoff EC, Ørntoft TF, Dyrskjøt L.. **Comprehensive Transcriptional Analysis of Early-Stage Urothelial Carcinoma**. *Cancer Cell. 2016 Jul 11;30(1):27-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ccell.2016.05.004. Epub 2016 Jun 16.*
* Trolle C, Nielsen MM, Skakkebæk A, Lamy P, Vang S, Hedegaard J, Nordentoft I, Ørntoft TF, Pedersen JS, Gravholt CH.. **Widespread DNA hypomethylation and differential gene expression in Turner syndrome**. *Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 30;6:34220. doi: 10.1038/srep34220.*
* Birkenkamp-Demtröder K, Nordentoft I, Christensen E, Høyer S, Reinert T, Vang S, Borre M, Agerbæk M, Jensen JB, Ørntoft TF, Dyrskjøt L.. **Genomic Alterations in Liquid Biopsies from Patients with Bladder Cancer**. *Eur Urol. 2016 Jul;70(1):75-82. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.01.007. Epub 2016 Jan 20.*
* Thomsen MB, Nordentoft I, Lamy P, Høyer S, Vang S, Hedegaard J, Borre M, Jensen JB, Ørntoft TF, Dyrskjøt L.. **Spatial and temporal clonal evolution during development of metastatic urothelial carcinoma**. *Mol Oncol. 2016 Nov;10(9):1450-1460. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2016.08.003. Epub 2016 Aug 17.*
* Knudsen M, Søndergaard D, Tofting-Olesen C, Hansen FT, Brodersen DE, Pedersen CN.. **Computational discovery of specificity-conferring sites in non-ribosomal peptide synthetases**. *Bioinformatics. 2016 Feb 1;32(3):325-9. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btv600. Epub 2015 Oct 14.*
* Søndergaard D, Pedersen CN, Greening C.. **HydDB: A web tool for hydrogenase classification and analysis**. *Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 27;6:34212. doi: 10.1038/srep34212.*
* Lamy P, Nordentoft I, Birkenkamp-Demtröder K, Thomsen MB, Villesen P, Vang S, Hedegaard J, Borre M, Jensen JB, Høyer S, Pedersen JS, Ørntoft TF, Dyrskjøt L.. **Paired Exome Analysis Reveals Clonal Evolution and Potential Therapeutic Targets in Urothelial Carcinoma**. *Cancer Res. 2016 Oct 1;76(19):5894-5906. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-16-0436. Epub 2016 Aug 3.*
* Malaspinas AS, Westaway MC, Muller C, Sousa VC, Lao O, Alves I, Bergström A, Athanasiadis G, Cheng JY, Crawford JE, Heupink TH, Macholdt E, Peischl S, Rasmussen S, Schiffels S, Subramanian S, Wright JL, Albrechtsen A, Barbieri C, Dupanloup I, Eriksson A, Margaryan A, Moltke I, Pugach I, Korneliussen TS, Levkivskyi IP, Moreno-Mayar JV, Ni S, Racimo F, Sikora M, Xue Y, Aghakhanian FA, Brucato N, Brunak S, Campos PF, Clark W, Ellingvåg S, Fourmile G, Gerbault P, Injie D, Koki G, Leavesley M, Logan B, Lynch A, Matisoo-Smith EA, McAllister PJ, Mentzer AJ, Metspalu M, Migliano AB, Murgha L, Phipps ME, Pomat W, Reynolds D, Ricaut FX, Siba P, Thomas MG, Wales T, Wall CM, Oppenheimer SJ, Tyler-Smith C, Durbin R, Dortch J, Manica A, Schierup MH, Foley RA, Lahr MM, Bowern C, Wall JD, Mailund T, Stoneking M, Nielsen R, Sandhu MS, Excoffier L, Lambert DM, Willerslev E.. **A genomic history of Aboriginal Australia**. *Nature. 2016 Oct 13;538(7624):207-214. doi: 10.1038/nature18299. Epub 2016 Sep 21.*
* Langkilde A, Olsen LC, Sætrom P, Drabløs F, Besenbacher S, Raaby L, Johansen C, Iversen L.. **Pathway Analysis of Skin from Psoriasis Patients after Adalimumab Treatment Reveals New Early Events in the Anti-Inflammatory Mechanism of Anti-TNF-α**. *PLoS One. 2016 Dec 22;11(12):e0167437. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167437. eCollection 2016.*
* Demontis D, Lescai F, Børglum A, Glerup S, Østergaard SD, Mors O, Li Q, Liang J, Jiang H, Li Y, Wang J, Lesch KP, Reif A, Buitelaar JK, Franke B.. **Whole-Exome Sequencing Reveals Increased Burden of Rare Functional and Disruptive Variants in Candidate Risk Genes in Individuals With Persistent Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder**. *J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2016 Jun;55(6):521-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jaac.2016.03.009.*
* Franke B, Stein JL, Ripke S, Anttila V, Hibar DP, van Hulzen KJE, Arias-Vasquez A, Smoller JW, Nichols TE, Neale MC, McIntosh AM, Lee P, McMahon FJ, Meyer-Lindenberg A, Mattheisen M, Andreassen OA, Gruber O, Sachdev PS, Roiz-Santiañez R, Saykin AJ, Ehrlich S, Mather KA, Turner JA, Schwarz E, Thalamuthu A, Shugart YY, Ho YY, Martin NG, Wright MJ; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; ENIGMA Consortium, O'Donovan MC, Thompson PM, Neale BM, Medland SE, Sullivan PF.. **Genetic influences on schizophrenia and subcortical brain volumes: large-scale proof of concept**. *Nat Neurosci. 2016 Mar;19(3):420-431. doi: 10.1038/nn.4228. Epub 2016 Feb 1.*
* Staunstrup NH, Starnawska A, Nyegaard M, Christiansen L, Nielsen AL, Børglum A, Mors O.. **Genome-wide DNA methylation profiling with MeDIP-seq using archived dried blood spots**. *Clin Epigenetics. 2016 Jul 26;8:81. doi: 10.1186/s13148-016-0242-1. eCollection 2016.*
* Viuff AC, Pedersen LH, Kyng K, Staunstrup NH, Børglum A, Henriksen TB.. **Antidepressant medication during pregnancy and epigenetic changes in umbilical cord blood: a systematic review**. *Clin Epigenetics. 2016 Sep 7;8(1):94. doi: 10.1186/s13148-016-0262-x. eCollection 2016.*
* Starnawska A, Demontis D, McQuillin A, O'Brien NL, Staunstrup NH, Mors O, Nielsen AL, Børglum AD, Nyegaard M.. **Hypomethylation of FAM63B in bipolar disorder patients**. *Clin Epigenetics. 2016 May 11;8:52. doi: 10.1186/s13148-016-0221-6. eCollection 2016.*
* Gregersen NO, Buttenschøn HN, Hedemand A, Nielsen MN, Dahl HA, Kristensen AS, Johansen O, Woldbye DP, Erhardt A, Kruse TA, Wang AG, Børglum AD, Mors O.. **Association between genes on chromosome 19p13.2 and panic disorder**. *Psychiatr Genet. 2016 Dec;26(6):287-292. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000147.*
* Benros ME, Trabjerg BB, Meier S, Mattheisen M, Mortensen PB, Mors O, Børglum AD, Hougaard DM, Nørgaard-Pedersen B, Nordentoft M, Agerbo E.. **Influence of Polygenic Risk Scores on the Association Between Infections and Schizophrenia**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2016 Oct 15;80(8):609-16. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2016.04.008. Epub 2016 Apr 19.*
* Hauberg ME, Roussos P, Grove J, Børglum AD, Mattheisen M; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Analyzing the Role of MicroRNAs in Schizophrenia in the Context of Common Genetic Risk Variants**. *JAMA Psychiatry. 2016 Apr;73(4):369-77. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2015.3018.*
* Johnson EC, Bjelland DW, Howrigan DP, Abdellaoui A, Breen G, Borglum A, Cichon S, Degenhardt F, Forstner AJ, Frank J, Genovese G, Heilmann-Heimbach S, Herms S, Hoffman P, Maier W, Mattheisen M, Morris D, Mowry B, Müller-Mhysok B, Neale B, Nenadic I, Nöthen MM, O'Dushlaine C, Rietschel M, Ruderfer DM, Rujescu D, Schulze TG, Simonson MA, Stahl E, Strohmaier J, Witt SH; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Sullivan PF, Keller MC.. **No Reliable Association between Runs of Homozygosity and Schizophrenia in a Well-Powered Replication Study**. *PLoS Genet. 2016 Oct 28;12(10):e1006343. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006343. eCollection 2016 Oct.*
* Bigdeli TB, Ripke S, Bacanu SA, Lee SH, Wray NR, Gejman PV, Rietschel M, Cichon S, St Clair D, Corvin A, Kirov G, McQuillin A, Gurling H, Rujescu D, Andreassen OA, Werge T, Blackwood DH, Pato CN, Pato MT, Malhotra AK, O'Donovan MC, Kendler KS, Fanous AH; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Genome-wide association study reveals greater polygenic loading for schizophrenia in cases with a family history of illness**. *Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2016 Mar;171B(2):276-89. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32402. Epub 2015 Dec 11.*
* Nissen JB, Hansen CS, Starnawska A, Mattheisen M, Børglum AD, Buttenschøn HN, Hollegaard M.. **DNA Methylation at the Neonatal State and at the Time of Diagnosis: Preliminary Support for an Association with the Estrogen Receptor 1, Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid B Receptor 1, and Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein in Female Adolescent Patients with OCD**. *Front Psychiatry. 2016 Mar 18;7:35. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2016.00035. eCollection 2016.*
* Hauberg ME, Holm-Nielsen MH, Mattheisen M, Askou AL, Grove J, Børglum AD, Corydon TJ.. **Schizophrenia risk variants affecting microRNA function and site-specific regulation of NT5C2 by miR-206**. *Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2016 Sep;26(9):1522-1526. doi: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2016.06.014. Epub 2016 Jul 11.*
* Robinson EB, St Pourcain B, Anttila V, Kosmicki JA, Bulik-Sullivan B, Grove J, Maller J, Samocha KE, Sanders SJ, Ripke S, Martin J, Hollegaard MV, Werge T, Hougaard DM; iPSYCH-SSI-Broad Autism Group, Neale BM, Evans DM, Skuse D, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Ronald A, Smith GD, Daly MJ.. **Genetic risk for autism spectrum disorders and neuropsychiatric variation in the general population**. *Nat Genet. 2016 May;48(5):552-5. doi: 10.1038/ng.3529. Epub 2016 Mar 21.*
* Paternoster V, Edhager AV, Sibbersen C, Nielsen AL, Børglum AD, Christensen JH, Palmfeldt J.. **Quantitative assessment of methyl-esterification and other side reactions in a standard propionylation protocol for detection of histone modifications**. *Proteomics. 2016 Jul;16(14):2059-63. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201500425. Epub 2016 May 10.*
* Fryland T, Christensen JH, Pallesen J, Mattheisen M, Palmfeldt J, Bak M, Grove J, Demontis D, Blechingberg J, Ooi HS, Nyegaard M, Hauberg ME, Tommerup N, Gregersen N, Mors O, Corydon TJ, Nielsen AL, Børglum AD.. **Identification of the BRD1 interaction network and its impact on mental disorder risk**. *Genome Med. 2016 May 3;8(1):53. doi: 10.1186/s13073-016-0308-x.*
* Poulsen JB, Lescai F, Grove J, Bækvad-Hansen M, Christiansen M, Hagen CM, Maller J, Stevens C, Li S, Li Q, Sun J, Wang J, Nordentoft M, Werge TM, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Daly M, Hougaard DM, Bybjerg-Grauholm J, Hollegaard MV.. **High-Quality Exome Sequencing of Whole-Genome Amplified Neonatal Dried Blood Spot DNA**. *PLoS One. 2016 Apr 18;11(4):e0153253. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153253. eCollection 2016.*
* Sekar A, Bialas AR, de Rivera H, Davis A, Hammond TR, Kamitaki N, Tooley K, Presumey J, Baum M, Van Doren V, Genovese G, Rose SA, Handsaker RE; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Daly MJ, Carroll MC, Stevens B, McCarroll SA.. **Schizophrenia risk from complex variation of complement component 4**. *Nature. 2016 Feb 11;530(7589):177-83. doi: 10.1038/nature16549. Epub 2016 Jan 27.*
* Rohde PD, Demontis D, Cuyabano BC; Genomic Medicine for Schizophrenia Group, Børglum AD, Sørensen P.. **Covariance Association Test (CVAT) Identifies Genetic Markers Associated with Schizophrenia in Functionally Associated Biological Processes**. *Genetics. 2016 Aug;203(4):1901-13. doi: 10.1534/genetics.116.189498. Epub 2016 Jun 17.*
* Gregersen NO, Lescai F, Liang J, Li Q, Als T, Buttenschøn HN, Hedemand A, Biskopstø M, Wang J, Wang AG, Børglum AD, Mors O, Demontis D.. **Whole-exome sequencing implicates DGKH as a risk gene for panic disorder in the Faroese population**. *Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2016 Dec;171(8):1013-1022. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32464. Epub 2016 Jun 3.*
* Björkman A, Qvist P, Du L, Bartish M, Zaravinos A, Georgiou K, Børglum AD, Gatti RA, Törngren T, Pan-Hammarström Q.. **Aberrant recombination and repair during immunoglobulin class switching in BRCA1-deficient human B cells**. *Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Feb 17;112(7):2157-62. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1418947112. Epub 2015 Feb 2.*
* Luo Y, Blechingberg J, Fernandes AM, Li S, Fryland T, Børglum AD, Bolund L, Nielsen AL.. **EWS and FUS bind a subset of transcribed genes encoding proteins enriched in RNA regulatory functions**. *BMC Genomics. 2015 Nov 14;16:929. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-2125-9.*
* Liu S, Huang S, Rao J, Ye W; Genome Denmark ConsortiumII, Krogh A, Wang J.. **Discovery, genotyping and characterization of structural variation and novel sequence at single nucleotide resolution from de novo genome assemblies on a population scale**. *Gigascience. 2015 Dec 24;4:64. doi: 10.1186/s13742-015-0103-4. eCollection 2015.*
* Besenbacher S, Liu S, Izarzugaza JM, Grove J, Belling K, Bork-Jensen J, Huang S, Als TD, Li S, Yadav R, Rubio-García A, Lescai F, Demontis D, Rao J, Ye W, Mailund T, Friborg RM, Pedersen CN, Xu R, Sun J, Liu H, Wang O, Cheng X, Flores D, Rydza E, Rapacki K, Damm Sørensen J, Chmura P, Westergaard D, Dworzynski P, Sørensen TI, Lund O, Hansen T, Xu X, Li N, Bolund L, Pedersen O, Eiberg H, Krogh A, Børglum AD, Brunak S, Kristiansen K, Schierup MH, Wang J, Gupta R, Villesen P, Rasmussen S.. **Novel variation and de novo mutation rates in population-wide de novo assembled Danish trios**. *Nat Commun. 2015 Jan 19;6:5969. doi: 10.1038/ncomms6969.*
* Debost JC, Petersen L, Grove J, Hedemand A, Khashan A, Henriksen T, Mors O, Hollegaard M, Hougaard D, Nyegaard M, Børglum A, Mortensen PB.. **Investigating interactions between early life stress and two single nucleotide polymorphisms in HSD11B2 on the risk of schizophrenia**. *Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2015 Oct;60:18-27. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.05.013. Epub 2015 Jun 11.*
* Luo XJ, Mattheisen M, Li M, Huang L, Rietschel M, Børglum AD, Als TD, van den Oord EJ, Aberg KA, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Luo Z, Degenhardt F, Cichon S, Schulze TG, Nöthen MM; iPSYCH-GEMS SCZ working group; MooDS SCZ Consortium, Su B, Zhao Z, Gan L, Yao YG.. **Systematic Integration of Brain eQTL and GWAS Identifies ZNF323 as a Novel Schizophrenia Risk Gene and Suggests Recent Positive Selection Based on Compensatory Advantage on Pulmonary Function**. *Schizophr Bull. 2015 Nov;41(6):1294-308. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbv017. Epub 2015 Mar 10.*
* Søndergaard D, Pedersen CN.. **PATBox: A Toolbox for Classification and Analysis of P-Type ATPases**. *PLoS One. 2015 Sep 30;10(9):e0139571. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139571. eCollection 2015.*
* Rajkumar AP, Qvist P, Lazarus R, Lescai F, Ju J, Nyegaard M, Mors O, Børglum AD, Li Q, Christensen JH.. **Experimental validation of methods for differential gene expression analysis and sample pooling in RNA-seq**. *BMC Genomics. 2015 Jul 25;16(1):548. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-1767-y.*
* Nyegaard M, Rendtorff ND, Nielsen MS, Corydon TJ, Demontis D, Starnawska A, Hedemand A, Buniello A, Niola F, Overgaard MT, Leal SM, Ahmad W, Wikman FP, Petersen KB, Crüger DG, Oostrik J, Kremer H, Tommerup N, Frödin M, Steel KP, Tranebjærg L, Børglum AD.. **A Novel Locus Harbouring a Functional CD164 Nonsense Mutation Identified in a Large Danish Family with Nonsyndromic Hearing Impairment**. *PLoS Genet. 2015 Jul 21;11(7):e1005386. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005386. eCollection 2015 Jul.*
* Gudbjartsson DF, Helgason H, Gudjonsson SA, Zink F, Oddson A, Gylfason A, Besenbacher S, Magnusson G, Halldorsson BV, Hjartarson E, Sigurdsson GT, Stacey SN, Frigge ML, Holm H, Saemundsdottir J, Helgadottir HT, Johannsdottir H, Sigfusson G, Thorgeirsson G, Sverrisson JT, Gretarsdottir S, Walters GB, Rafnar T, Thjodleifsson B, Bjornsson ES, Olafsson S, Thorarinsdottir H, Steingrimsdottir T, Gudmundsdottir TS, Theodors A, Jonasson JG, Sigurdsson A, Bjornsdottir G, Jonsson JJ, Thorarensen O, Ludvigsson P, Gudbjartsson H, Eyjolfsson GI, Sigurdardottir O, Olafsson I, Arnar DO, Magnusson OT, Kong A, Masson G, Thorsteinsdottir U, Helgason A, Sulem P, Stefansson K.. **Large-scale whole-genome sequencing of the Icelandic population**. *Nat Genet. 2015 May;47(5):435-44. doi: 10.1038/ng.3247. Epub 2015 Mar 25.*
* Agerbo E, Sullivan PF, Vilhjálmsson BJ, Pedersen CB, Mors O, Børglum AD, Hougaard DM, Hollegaard MV, Meier S, Mattheisen M, Ripke S, Wray NR, Mortensen PB.. **Polygenic Risk Score, Parental Socioeconomic Status, Family History of Psychiatric Disorders, and the Risk for Schizophrenia: A Danish Population-Based Study and Meta-analysis**. *JAMA Psychiatry. 2015 Jul;72(7):635-41. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2015.0346.*
* Loh PR, Bhatia G, Gusev A, Finucane HK, Bulik-Sullivan BK, Pollack SJ; Schizophrenia Working Group of Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, de Candia TR, Lee SH, Wray NR, Kendler KS, O'Donovan MC, Neale BM, Patterson N, Price AL.. **Contrasting genetic architectures of schizophrenia and other complex diseases using fast variance-components analysis**. *Nat Genet. 2015 Dec;47(12):1385-92. doi: 10.1038/ng.3431. Epub 2015 Nov 2.*
* Dutheil JY, Munch K, Nam K, Mailund T, Schierup MH.. **Strong Selective Sweeps on the X Chromosome in the Human-Chimpanzee Ancestor Explain Its Low Divergence**. *PLoS Genet. 2015 Aug 14;11(8):e1005451. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005451. eCollection 2015 Aug.*
* Bataillon T, Duan J, Hvilsom C, Jin X, Li Y, Skov L, Glemin S, Munch K, Jiang T, Qian Y, Hobolth A, Wang J, Mailund T, Siegismund HR, Schierup MH.. **Inference of purifying and positive selection in three subspecies of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) from exome sequencing**. *Genome Biol Evol. 2015 Mar 30;7(4):1122-32. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evv058.*
* Rajkumar AP, Christensen JH, Mattheisen M, Jacobsen I, Bache I, Pallesen J, Grove J, Qvist P, McQuillin A, Gurling HM, Tümer Z, Mors O, Børglum AD.. **Analysis of t(9;17)(q33.2;q25.3) chromosomal breakpoint regions and genetic association reveals novel candidate genes for bipolar disorder**. *Bipolar Disord. 2015 Mar;17(2):205-11. doi: 10.1111/bdi.12239. Epub 2014 Jul 23.*
* Vilhjálmsson BJ, Yang J, Finucane HK, Gusev A, Lindström S, Ripke S, Genovese G, Loh PR, Bhatia G, Do R, Hayeck T, Won HH; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Discovery, Biology, and Risk of Inherited Variants in Breast Cancer (DRIVE) study, Kathiresan S, Pato M, Pato C, Tamimi R, Stahl E, Zaitlen N, Pasaniuc B, Belbin G, Kenny EE, Schierup MH, De Jager P, Patsopoulos NA, McCarroll S, Daly M, Purcell S, Chasman D, Neale B, Goddard M, Visscher PM, Kraft P, Patterson N, Price AL.. **Modeling Linkage Disequilibrium Increases Accuracy of Polygenic Risk Scores**. *Am J Hum Genet. 2015 Oct 1;97(4):576-92. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.09.001.*
* Bulik-Sullivan BK, Loh PR, Finucane HK, Ripke S, Yang J; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Patterson N, Daly MJ, Price AL, Neale BM.. **LD Score regression distinguishes confounding from polygenicity in genome-wide association studies**. *Nat Genet. 2015 Mar;47(3):291-5. doi: 10.1038/ng.3211. Epub 2015 Feb 2.*
* Nam K, Munch K, Hobolth A, Dutheil JY, Veeramah KR, Woerner AE, Hammer MF; Great Ape Genome Diversity Project, Mailund T, Schierup MH.. **Extreme selective sweeps independently targeted the X chromosomes of the great apes**. *Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 May 19;112(20):6413-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1419306112. Epub 2015 May 4.*
* Mors O, Børglum AD.. **[Genomics of mental disorders]**. *Ugeskr Laeger. 2014 Nov 10;176(46). pii: V08140434.*
* Mailund T, Munch K, Schierup MH.. **Lineage sorting in apes**. *Annu Rev Genet. 2014;48:519-35. doi: 10.1146/annurev-genet-120213-092532. Epub 2014 Sep 19.*
* Grove J, Børglum AD, Pearce BD.. **GWAS, cytomegalovirus infection, and schizophrenia**. *Curr Behav Neurosci Rep. 2014 Dec 1;1(4):215-223. doi: 10.1007/s40473-014-0022-1.*
* Nicodemus KK, Hargreaves A, Morris D, Anney R; Schizophrenia Psychiatric Genome-wide Association Study (GWAS) Consortium; Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2, Gill M, Corvin A, Donohoe G.. **Variability in working memory performance explained by epistasis vs polygenic scores in the ZNF804A pathway**. *JAMA Psychiatry. 2014 Jul 1;71(7):778-785. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2014.528.*
* Schaldemose EL, Horjales-Araujo E, Demontis D, Børglum AD, Svensson P, Finnerup NB.. **No association of polymorphisms in the serotonin transporter gene with thermal pain sensation in healthy individuals**. *Mol Pain. 2014 Dec 4;10:76. doi: 10.1186/1744-8069-10-76.*
* Forstner AJ, Basmanav FB, Mattheisen M, Böhmer AC, Hollegaard MV, Janson E, Strengman E, Priebe L, Degenhardt F, Hoffmann P, Herms S, Maier W, Mössner R, Rujescu D, Ophoff RA, Moebus S, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Hougaard DM, Frank J, Witt SH, Rietschel M, Zimmer A, Nöthen MM, Miró X, Cichon S.. **Investigation of the involvement of MIR185 and its target genes in the development of schizophrenia**. *J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2014 Nov;39(6):386-96. doi: 10.1503/jpn.130189.*
* Gregersen NO, Buttenschøn HN, Hedemand A, Dahl HA, Kristensen AS, Clementsen B, Woldbye DP, Koefoed P, Erhardt A, Kruse TA, Wang AG, Børglum AD, Mors O.. **Are TMEM genes potential candidate genes for panic disorder?**. *Psychiatr Genet. 2014 Feb;24(1):37-41. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000022.*
* Juraeva D, Haenisch B, Zapatka M, Frank J; GROUP Investigators; PSYCH-GEMS SCZ Working Group, Witt SH, Mühleisen TW, Treutlein J, Strohmaier J, Meier S, Degenhardt F, Giegling I, Ripke S, Leber M, Lange C, Schulze TG, Mössner R, Nenadic I, Sauer H, Rujescu D, Maier W, Børglum A, Ophoff R, Cichon S, Nöthen MM, Rietschel M, Mattheisen M, Brors B.. **Integrated pathway-based approach identifies association between genomic regions at CTCF and CACNB2 and schizophrenia**. *PLoS Genet. 2014 Jun 5;10(6):e1004345. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004345. eCollection 2014 Jun.*
* Munch K, Schierup MH, Mailund T.. **Unraveling recombination rate evolution using ancestral recombination maps**. *Bioessays. 2014 Sep;36(9):892-900. doi: 10.1002/bies.201400047. Epub 2014 Jul 14.*
* Li S, Besenbacher S, Li Y, Kristiansen K, Grarup N, Albrechtsen A, Sparsø T, Korneliussen T, Hansen T, Wang J, Nielsen R, Pedersen O, Bolund L, Schierup MH.. **Variation and association to diabetes in 2000 full mtDNA sequences mined from an exome study in a Danish population**. *Eur J Hum Genet. 2014 Aug;22(8):1040-5. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2013.282. Epub 2014 Jan 22.*
* Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.. **Biological insights from 108 schizophrenia-associated genetic loci**. *Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):421-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13595. Epub 2014 Jul 22.*
* Munch K, Mailund T, Dutheil JY, Schierup MH.. **A fine-scale recombination map of the human-chimpanzee ancestor reveals faster change in humans than in chimpanzees and a strong impact of GC-biased gene conversion**. *Genome Res. 2014 Mar;24(3):467-74. doi: 10.1101/gr.158469.113. Epub 2013 Nov 4.*
* Elfving B, Buttenschøn HN, Foldager L, Poulsen PH, Grynderup MB, Hansen ÅM, Kolstad HA, Kaerlev L, Mikkelsen S, Børglum AD, Wegener G, Mors O.. **Depression and BMI influences the serum vascular endothelial growth factor level**. *Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Sep;17(9):1409-17. doi: 10.1017/S1461145714000273. Epub 2014 Mar 17.*
* Gusev A, Lee SH, Trynka G, Finucane H, Vilhjálmsson BJ, Xu H, Zang C, Ripke S, Bulik-Sullivan B, Stahl E; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; SWE-SCZ Consortium, Kähler AK, Hultman CM, Purcell SM, McCarroll SA, Daly M, Pasaniuc B, Sullivan PF, Neale BM, Wray NR, Raychaudhuri S, Price AL; Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; SWE-SCZ Consortium.. **Partitioning heritability of regulatory and cell-type-specific variants across 11 common diseases**. *Am J Hum Genet. 2014 Nov 6;95(5):535-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2014.10.004. Epub 2014 Nov 6.*
* Sanggaard KW, Bechsgaard JS, Fang X, Duan J, Dyrlund TF, Gupta V, Jiang X, Cheng L, Fan D, Feng Y, Han L, Huang Z, Wu Z, Liao L, Settepani V, Thøgersen IB, Vanthournout B, Wang T, Zhu Y, Funch P, Enghild JJ, Schauser L, Andersen SU, Villesen P, Schierup MH, Bilde T, Wang J.. **Spider genomes provide insight into composition and evolution of venom and silk**. *Nat Commun. 2014 May 6;5:3765. doi: 10.1038/ncomms4765.*
* Qian Y, Besenbacher S, Mailund T, Schierup MH.. **Identifying disease associated genes by network propagation**. *BMC Syst Biol. 2014;8 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S6. doi: 10.1186/1752-0509-8-S1-S6. Epub 2014 Jan 24.*
* Marcheco-Teruel B, Parra EJ, Fuentes-Smith E, Salas A, Buttenschøn HN, Demontis D, Torres-Español M, Marín-Padrón LC, Gómez-Cabezas EJ, Alvarez-Iglesias V, Mosquera-Miguel A, Martínez-Fuentes A, Carracedo A, Børglum AD, Mors O.. **Cuba: exploring the history of admixture and the genetic basis of pigmentation using autosomal and uniparental markers**. *PLoS Genet. 2014 Jul 24;10(7):e1004488. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004488. eCollection 2014 Jul.*
* Thomsen R, Pallesen J, Daugaard TF, Børglum AD, Nielsen AL.. **Genome wide assessment of mRNA in astrocyte protrusions by direct RNA sequencing reveals mRNA localization for the intermediate filament protein nestin**. *Glia. 2013 Nov;61(11):1922-37. doi: 10.1002/glia.22569. Epub 2013 Sep 5.*
* Terwisscha van Scheltinga AF, Bakker SC, van Haren NE, Derks EM, Buizer-Voskamp JE, Boos HB, Cahn W, Hulshoff Pol HE, Ripke S, Ophoff RA, Kahn RS; Psychiatric Genome-wide Association Study Consortium.. **Genetic schizophrenia risk variants jointly modulate total brain and white matter volume**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2013 Mar 15;73(6):525-31. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.08.017. Epub 2012 Oct 3.*
* Schork AJ, Thompson WK, Pham P, Torkamani A, Roddey JC, Sullivan PF, Kelsoe JR, O'Donovan MC, Furberg H; Tobacco and Genetics Consortium; Bipolar Disorder Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; Schizophrenia Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, Schork NJ, Andreassen OA, Dale AM.. **All SNPs are not created equal: genome-wide association studies reveal a consistent pattern of enrichment among functionally annotated SNPs**. *PLoS Genet. 2013 Apr;9(4):e1003449. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003449. Epub 2013 Apr 25.*
* Horjales-Araujo E, Demontis D, Lund EK, Vase L, Finnerup NB, Børglum AD, Jensen TS, Svensson P.. **Emotional modulation of muscle pain is associated with polymorphisms in the serotonin transporter gene**. *Pain. 2013 Aug;154(8):1469-76. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.2013.05.011. Epub 2013 May 14.*
* Ripke S, O'Dushlaine C, Chambert K, Moran JL, Kähler AK, Akterin S, Bergen SE, Collins AL, Crowley JJ, Fromer M, Kim Y, Lee SH, Magnusson PK, Sanchez N, Stahl EA, Williams S, Wray NR, Xia K, Bettella F, Borglum AD, Bulik-Sullivan BK, Cormican P, Craddock N, de Leeuw C, Durmishi N, Gill M, Golimbet V, Hamshere ML, Holmans P, Hougaard DM, Kendler KS, Lin K, Morris DW, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Neale BM, O'Neill FA, Owen MJ, Milovancevic MP, Posthuma D, Powell J, Richards AL, Riley BP, Ruderfer D, Rujescu D, Sigurdsson E, Silagadze T, Smit AB, Stefansson H, Steinberg S, Suvisaari J, Tosato S, Verhage M, Walters JT; Multicenter Genetic Studies of Schizophrenia Consortium, Levinson DF, Gejman PV, Kendler KS, Laurent C, Mowry BJ, O'Donovan MC, Owen MJ, Pulver AE, Riley BP, Schwab SG, Wildenauer DB, Dudbridge F, Holmans P, Shi J, Albus M, Alexander M, Campion D, Cohen D, Dikeos D, Duan J, Eichhammer P, Godard S, Hansen M, Lerer FB, Liang KY, Maier W, Mallet J, Nertney DA, Nestadt G, Norton N, O'Neill FA, Papadimitriou GN, Ribble R, Sanders AR, Silverman JM, Walsh D, Williams NM, Wormley B; Psychosis Endophenotypes International Consortium, Arranz MJ, Bakker S, Bender S, Bramon E, Collier D, Crespo-Facorro B, et al.. **Genome-wide association analysis identifies 13 new risk loci for schizophrenia**. *Nat Genet. 2013 Oct;45(10):1150-9. doi: 10.1038/ng.2742. Epub 2013 Aug 25.*
* Buttenschøn HN, Flint TJ, Foldager L, Qin P, Christoffersen S, Hansen NF, Kristensen IB, Mortensen PB, Børglum AD, Mors O.. **An association study of suicide and candidate genes in the serotonergic system**. *J Affect Disord. 2013 Jun;148(2-3):291-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.12.011. Epub 2013 Jan 11.*
* Li S, Li R, Li H, Lu J, Li Y, Bolund L, Schierup MH, Wang J.. **SOAPindel: efficient identification of indels from short paired reads**. *Genome Res. 2013 Jan;23(1):195-200. doi: 10.1101/gr.132480.111. Epub 2012 Sep 12.*
* Prado-Martinez J, Sudmant PH, Kidd JM, Li H, Kelley JL, Lorente-Galdos B, Veeramah KR, Woerner AE, O'Connor TD, Santpere G, Cagan A, Theunert C, Casals F, Laayouni H, Munch K, Hobolth A, Halager AE, Malig M, Hernandez-Rodriguez J, Hernando-Herraez I, Prüfer K, Pybus M, Johnstone L, Lachmann M, Alkan C, Twigg D, Petit N, Baker C, Hormozdiari F, Fernandez-Callejo M, Dabad M, Wilson ML, Stevison L, Camprubí C, Carvalho T, Ruiz-Herrera A, Vives L, Mele M, Abello T, Kondova I, Bontrop RE, Pusey A, Lankester F, Kiyang JA, Bergl RA, Lonsdorf E, Myers S, Ventura M, Gagneux P, Comas D, Siegismund H, Blanc J, Agueda-Calpena L, Gut M, Fulton L, Tishkoff SA, Mullikin JC, Wilson RK, Gut IG, Gonder MK, Ryder OA, Hahn BH, Navarro A, Akey JM, Bertranpetit J, Reich D, Mailund T, Schierup MH, Hvilsom C, Andrés AM, Wall JD, Bustamante CD, Hammer MF, Eichler EE, Marques-Bonet T.. **Great ape genetic diversity and population history**. *Nature. 2013 Jul 25;499(7459):471-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12228. Epub 2013 Jul 3.*
* Buttenschøn HN, Jacobsen IS, Grynderup MB, Hansen AM, Kolstad HA, Kaerlev L, Thomsen JF, Nordentoft M, Silahtaroglu A, Tommerup N, Tümer Z, Krogh J, Børglum AD, Mors O.. **An association study between the norepinephrine transporter gene and depression**. *Psychiatr Genet. 2013 Oct;23(5):217-21. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000003.*
* Horjales-Araujo E, Demontis D, Lund EK, Finnerup NB, Børglum AD, Jensen TS, Svensson P, Vase L.. **Polymorphism in serotonin receptor 3B is associated with pain catastrophizing**. *PLoS One. 2013 Nov 11;8(11):e78889. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078889. eCollection 2013.*
* Petersen M, Andersen JT, Jimenez-Solem E, Broedbaek K, Afzal S, Nyegaard M, Børglum AD, Stender S, Torp-Pedersen C, Køber L, Poulsen HE.. **Effect of specific ADRB1/ADRB2/AGT genotype combinations on the association between survival and carvedilol treatment in chronic heart failure: a substudy of the ECHOS trial**. *Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2012 Oct;22(10):709-15. doi: 10.1097/FPC.0b013e3283540286.*
* Stukenbrock EH, Christiansen FB, Hansen TT, Dutheil JY, Schierup MH.. **Fusion of two divergent fungal individuals led to the recent emergence of a unique widespread pathogen species**. *Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Jul 3;109(27):10954-9. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1201403109. Epub 2012 Jun 18.*
* Mattila TM, Bechsgaard JS, Hansen TT, Schierup MH, Bilde T.. **Orthologous genes identified by transcriptome sequencing in the spider genus Stegodyphus**. *BMC Genomics. 2012 Feb 14;13:70. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-70.*
* Elfving B, Buttenschøn HN, Foldager L, Poulsen PH, Andersen JH, Grynderup MB, Hansen ÅM, Kolstad HA, Kaerlev L, Mikkelsen S, Thomsen JF, Børglum AD, Wegener G, Mors O.. **Depression, the Val66Met polymorphism, age, and gender influence the serum BDNF level**. *J Psychiatr Res. 2012 Sep;46(9):1118-25. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2012.05.003. Epub 2012 Jun 6.*
* Kruse LV, Nyegaard M, Christensen U, Møller-Larsen S, Haagerup A, Deleuran M, Hansen LG, Venø SK, Goossens D, Del-Favero J, Børglum AD.. **A genome-wide search for linkage to allergic rhinitis in Danish sib-pair families**. *Eur J Hum Genet. 2012 Sep;20(9):965-72. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2012.46. Epub 2012 Mar 14.*
* Fryland T, Elfving B, Christensen JH, Mors O, Wegener G, Børglum AD.. **Electroconvulsive seizures regulates the Brd1 gene in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of the adult rat**. *Neurosci Lett. 2012 May 10;516(1):110-3. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2012.03.069.*
* Pedersen MS, Benros ME, Agerbo E, Børglum AD, Mortensen PB.. **Schizophrenia in patients with atopic disorders with particular emphasis on asthma: a Danish population-based study**. *Schizophr Res. 2012 Jun;138(1):58-62. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2012.02.019. Epub 2012 Mar 4.*
* Gregersen N, Dahl HA, Buttenschøn HN, Nyegaard M, Hedemand A, Als TD, Wang AG, Joensen S, Woldbye DP, Koefoed P, Kristensen AS, Kruse TA, Børglum AD, Mors O.. **A genome-wide study of panic disorder suggests the amiloride-sensitive cation channel 1 as a candidate gene**. *Eur J Hum Genet. 2012 Jan;20(1):84-90. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2011.148. Epub 2011 Aug 3.*
* Demontis D, Nyegaard M, Christensen JH, Severinsen J, Hedemand A, Hansen T, Werge T, Mors O, Børglum AD.. **The gene encoding the melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 is associated with schizophrenia in a Danish case-control sample**. *Psychiatr Genet. 2012 Apr;22(2):62-9. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0b013e32834dc424.*
* Vassos E, Steinberg S, Cichon S, Breen G, Sigurdsson E, Andreassen OA, Djurovic S, Morken G, Grigoroiu-Serbanescu M, Diaconu CC, Czerski PM, Hauser J, Babadjanova G, Abramova LI, Mühleisen TW, Nöthen MM, Rietschel M, McGuffin P, St Clair D, Gustafsson O, Melle I, Pietiläinen OP, Ruggeri M, Tosato S, Werge T, Ophoff RA; GROUP Consortium, Rujescu D, Børglum AD, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Demontis D, Hollegaard MV, van Winkel R, Kenis G, De Hert M, Réthelyi JM, Bitter I, Rubino IA, Golimbet V, Kiemeney LA, van den Berg LH, Franke B, Jönsson EG, Farmer A, Stefansson H, Stefansson K, Collier DA.. **Replication study and meta-analysis in European samples supports association of the 3p21.1 locus with bipolar disorder**. *Biol Psychiatry. 2012 Oct 15;72(8):645-50. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.02.040. Epub 2012 May 5.*
* Saetre P, Grove J, Børglum AD, Mors O, Werge T, Andreassen OA, Vares M, Agartz I, Terenius L, Jönsson EG.. **Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T polymorphism and age at onset of schizophrenia: no consistent evidence for an association in the Nordic population**. *Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2012 Dec;159B(8):981-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32104. Epub 2012 Oct 17.*
* Christensen JH, Elfving B, Müller HK, Fryland T, Nyegaard M, Corydon TJ, Nielsen AL, Mors O, Wegener G, Børglum AD.. **The Schizophrenia and Bipolar Disorder associated BRD1 gene is regulated upon chronic restraint stress**. *Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2012 Sep;22(9):651-6. doi: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2012.01.005. Epub 2012 Feb 17.*
* Nyegaard M, Demontis D, Thestrup BB, Hedemand A, Sørensen KM, Hansen T, Werge T, Hougaard DM, Yolken RH, Mortensen PB, Mors O, Børglum AD.. **No association of polymorphisms in human endogenous retrovirus K18 and CD48 with schizophrenia**. *Psychiatr Genet. 2012 Jun;22(3):146-8. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0b013e328353953c.*
* Besenbacher S, Mailund T, Schierup MH.. **Association mapping and disease: evolutionary perspectives**. *Methods Mol Biol. 2012;856:275-91. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-585-5_11.*
* Prüfer K, Munch K, Hellmann I, Akagi K, Miller JR, Walenz B, Koren S, Sutton G, Kodira C, Winer R, Knight JR, Mullikin JC, Meader SJ, Ponting CP, Lunter G, Higashino S, Hobolth A, Dutheil J, Karakoç E, Alkan C, Sajjadian S, Catacchio CR, Ventura M, Marques-Bonet T, Eichler EE, André C, Atencia R, Mugisha L, Junhold J, Patterson N, Siebauer M, Good JM, Fischer A, Ptak SE, Lachmann M, Symer DE, Mailund T, Schierup MH, Andrés AM, Kelso J, Pääbo S.. **The bonobo genome compared with the chimpanzee and human genomes**. *Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):527-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11128.*
* Pedersen JM, Fredsoe J, Roedgaard M, Andreasen L, Mundbjerg K, Kruhøffer M, Brinch M, Schierup MH, Bjergbaek L, Andersen AH.. **DNA Topoisomerases maintain promoters in a state competent for transcriptional activation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae**. *PLoS Genet. 2012;8(12):e1003128. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003128. Epub 2012 Dec 20.*
* Mailund T, Halager AE, Westergaard M, Dutheil JY, Munch K, Andersen LN, Lunter G, Prüfer K, Scally A, Hobolth A, Schierup MH.. **A new isolation with migration model along complete genomes infers very different divergence processes among closely related great ape species**. *PLoS Genet. 2012;8(12):e1003125. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003125. Epub 2012 Dec 20.*
* Hvilsom C, Qian Y, Bataillon T, Li Y, Mailund T, Sallé B, Carlsen F, Li R, Zheng H, Jiang T, Jiang H, Jin X, Munch K, Hobolth A, Siegismund HR, Wang J, Schierup MH.. **Extensive X-linked adaptive evolution in central chimpanzees**. *Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Feb 7;109(6):2054-9. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1106877109. Epub 2012 Jan 23.*
* Nyegaard M, Overgaard MT, Søndergaard MT, Vranas M, Behr ER, Hildebrandt LL, Lund J, Hedley PL, Camm AJ, Wettrell G, Fosdal I, Christiansen M, Børglum AD.. **Mutations in calmodulin cause ventricular tachycardia and sudden cardiac death**. *Am J Hum Genet. 2012 Oct 5;91(4):703-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.08.015.*
* Scally A, Dutheil JY, Hillier LW, Jordan GE, Goodhead I, Herrero J, Hobolth A, Lappalainen T, Mailund T, Marques-Bonet T, McCarthy S, Montgomery SH, Schwalie PC, Tang YA, Ward MC, Xue Y, Yngvadottir B, Alkan C, Andersen LN, Ayub Q, Ball EV, Beal K, Bradley BJ, Chen Y, Clee CM, Fitzgerald S, Graves TA, Gu Y, Heath P, Heger A, Karakoc E, Kolb-Kokocinski A, Laird GK, Lunter G, Meader S, Mort M, Mullikin JC, Munch K, O'Connor TD, Phillips AD, Prado-Martinez J, Rogers AS, Sajjadian S, Schmidt D, Shaw K, Simpson JT, Stenson PD, Turner DJ, Vigilant L, Vilella AJ, Whitener W, Zhu B, Cooper DN, de Jong P, Dermitzakis ET, Eichler EE, Flicek P, Goldman N, Mundy NI, Ning Z, Odom DT, Ponting CP, Quail MA, Ryder OA, Searle SM, Warren WC, Wilson RK, Schierup MH, Rogers J, Tyler-Smith C, Durbin R.. **Insights into hominid evolution from the gorilla genome sequence**. *Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7388):169-75. doi: 10.1038/nature10842.*
* Jin X, He M, Ferguson B, Meng Y, Ouyang L, Ren J, Mailund T, Sun F, Sun L, Shen J, Zhuo M, Song L, Wang J, Ling F, Zhu Y, Hvilsom C, Siegismund H, Liu X, Gong Z, Ji F, Wang X, Liu B, Zhang Y, Hou J, Wang J, Zhao H, Wang Y, Fang X, Zhang G, Wang J, Zhang X, Schierup MH, Du H, Wang J, Wang X.. **An effort to use human-based exome capture methods to analyze chimpanzee and macaque exomes**. *PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e40637. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040637. Epub 2012 Jul 27.*
