+++
title = "Targeted sequencing of ctDNA from patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer in first-line treatment setting"
date = "2024-10-21"

[extra]
id = "GDK000012"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Maria Rusan"
email = "maria.rusan@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

Deep targeted sequencing, with a prostate cancer-specific gene panel, was performed on circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and germline DNA from blood of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer patients (n=53), prior to starting first-line treatment with enzalutamide or abiraterone acetate, and for a subset of patients also at progression (n=18). The dataset includes clipped bam files, as well as corresponding vcf files, for cfDNA and germline (buffy coat) targeted sequencing for all 53 patients at baseline, and for the subset of 18 patients at progression.

Samples                 | Technology   | Sequencing platform
------------------------|--------------|----------------------
ctDNA_1_baseline…ctDNA_53_baseline, buffy_1_baseline…buffy_53_baseline; ctDNA_1_progression, buffy_1_progression, … ctDNA_18_progression, buffy_18_progression.  | Illumina NGS | Illumina Novaseq

# Original publication

Nørgaard M\*, Rusan M\*, Kondrup K, Sørensen EMG, Weiss S, Bjerre MT, Fredsøe J, Vang S, Jensen JB, De Laere B, Grönberg H, Borre M, Lindberg J, Sørensen KD. Deep targeted sequencing of circulating tumor DNA to inform treatment in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. In preparation. \*Shared co-first authorship.

# Data access
External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
