+++
title = "Oral microbiome of patients with advanced prostate cancer"
date = "2025-12-02"

[extra]
id = "GDK000022"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Paul Salachan"
email = "pvs@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

16s rRNA gene sequencing data generated from the saliva of patients with
hormone-sensitive (n=22) and castration-resistant prostate cancer (n=23) as
well as no template controls (n=25). Samples were sequenced on Illumina MiSeq
platform. The dataset includes raw sequencing files, processed microbial data
and corresponding meta data.

# Original publication

Salachan et al. *Oral microbiome of patients with advanced prostate cancer.*

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the
prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to
kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard
Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical
Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed
to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The
Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the
specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) must submit the
application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named
collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and
a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the
legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office
of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
