+++
title = "Whole genome mutational analysis for accurate tumor-informed ctDNA based MRD surveillance, treatment monitoring and biological characterization of urothelial carcinoma"
date = "2023-11-16"

[extra]
id = "GDK000007"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Lars Dyrskjøt Andersen"
email = "lars@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Iver Nordentoft"
email = "iver.nordentoft@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data was generated from tumor DNA (Dataset A) and paired normal DNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (Dataset B) from 112 patients with localized muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). Tumor samples were either acquired as fresh-frozen (n = 33) or formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (n = 79) tissue biopsies. Furthermore, WGS data was generated for plasma-derived cell-free DNA (Dataset C) from 916 serially collected plasma samples from the patients.

Dataset ID | Samples                                                                                                    | Sample Type   | Technology   | Sequencing Platform
-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|--------------|---------------------
A          | MOB0001\_tumor, MOB0002\_tumor, MOB0003\_tumor, … etc.                                                     | Tumor DNA     | Illumina NGS | Illumina NovaSeq 6000
B          | MOB0001\_normal, MOB0002\_normal, MOB0003\_normal, … etc.                                                  | Normal DNA    | Illumina NGS | Illumina NovaSeq 6000
C          | MOB0001\_1\_plasma, MOB0001\_2\_plasma, MOB0001\_3\_plasma, MOB0002\_1\_plasma, MOB0002\_2\_plasma, … etc. | Cell-free DNA | Illumina NGS | Illumina NovaSeq 6000


# Original publication

Nordentoft et al. _Whole genome mutational analysis for accurate tumor-informed ctDNA based MRD surveillance, treatment monitoring and biological characterization of urothelial carcinoma._

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to lars@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Lars Dyrskjøt Andersen and Iver Nordentoft (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymized) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) must submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor). Expenses related to the data sharing process will be charged to the external researchers.
