+++
title = "Stroma-specific gene expression signature identifies novel prostate cancer subtype with high recurrence risk"
date = "2023-08-11"

[extra]
id = "GDK000003"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Simone Weiss"
email = "simoneweiss@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description
Whole-genome DNA sequencing data generated from tumor samples from 11 hormone-naïve prostate cancer (HNPC) patients, 15 hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (HSPC) patients, and 15 castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients. The tumor samples were either acquired as fresh-frozen radical prostatectomy tissue, fresh-frozen transurethral resection of the prostate tissue, or plasma circulating tumor DNA. The dataset includes raw sequencing files, processed variant call files, and clinical data for each of the 41 patients.

Samples            | Technology   | Sequencing Platform
-------------------|--------------|------------------------------------
HNPC\_1 - HNPC\_11 | Illumina NGS | Illumina NovaSeq 6000
HSPC\_1 - HSPC\_15 | Illumina NGS | Illumina NovaSeq 6000
CRPC\_1 - CRPC\_15 | Illumina NGS | Illumina NovaSeq 6000


# Original publication

Weiss et al. Exploring the tumor genomic landscape of aggressive prostate cancer by whole-genome sequencing of tissue or liquid biopsies.

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
