+++
title = "Association between copy number alterations estimated using low-pass whole-genome sequencing of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostate tumor tissue and cancer-specific clinical parameters"
date = "2023-09-26"

[extra]
id = "GDK000004"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Paul Salachan"
email = "pvs@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description
Low-pass whole-genome sequencing (LPWGS) data generated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostate tumor tissue from 187 patients with early-stage localized prostate cancer. The dataset includes sequencing BAM files, processed data (CNA calls), and clinical data for each patient.

Samples     | Technology   | Sequencing Platform
------------|--------------|------------------------
PC1 - PC187 | LPWGS        | Illumina Novaseq


# Original publication

Salachan et al. Association between copy number alterations estimated using low-pass whole-genome sequencing of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostate tumor tissue and cancer-specific clinical parameters.

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
