+++
title = "Stroma-specific gene expression signature identifies novel prostate cancer subtype with high recurrence risk"
date = "2023-06-26"

[extra]
id = "GDK000002"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Martin Rasmussen"
email = "martin.rasmussen@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description
Total RNA sequencing data generated from 31 adjacent normal and 127 localized prostate cancer samples from 142 localized prostate cancer patients. Fresh frozen prostate tissue samples acquired as part of radical prostatectomy procedure. The dataset includes raw sequencing files, processed gene expression files for all 158 samples and clinical data for each of the 142 patients.

Samples   | Technology                                              | Sequencing Platform
----------|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------
AN 1-31	  | ScriptSeq RNA-seq Library kit or KAPA RNA HyperPrep Kit | Illumina HiSeq, NextSeq, or NovaSeq
LPC 1-127 | ScriptSeq RNA-seq Library kit or KAPA RNA HyperPrep Kit | Illumina HiSeq, NextSeq, or NovaSeq


# Original publication

Rasmussen et al. Stroma-specific gene expression signature identifies novel prostate cancer subtype with high recurrence risk

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). In accordance with Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
