+++
title = "Training and validation of a novel 14-gene Expression Signature (CaP14) associated with prostate cancer metastasis and postoperative recurrence"
date = "2025-02-25"

[extra]
id = "GDK000016"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Eva Ferlev Jensby"
email = "evaferlev@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

QuantSeq bulk mRNA sequencing from two prostate cancer cohorts (cohort 1, n = 138; cohort 4, n = 174). Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples from primary prostate tissue. The datasets include normalized, filtered data and metadata (cohort 1) and normalized and metadata (cohort 4).

Dataset ID | Samples                          | Technology          | Sequencing platform
-----------|----------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------
Cohort 1   | LPC1…LPC36, MPC1…MPC66, AN1…AN36 | QuantSeq (Lexogen)  | Illumina NextSeq 500
Cohort 4   | RP1…RP174                        | QuantSeq (Lexogen)  | Illumina NovaSeq 6000


# Original publication

E.F. Jensby et al. *Training and validation of a novel 14-gene Expression Signature (CaP14) associated with prostate cancer metastasis and postoperative recurrence.*

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate datasets will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
