+++
title = "Methylation Profiles and Genomic Instability in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma: Prognostic Relevance Revealed by Comprehensive MeDIP-seq Analysis"
date = "2025-04-22"

[extra]
id = "GDK000019"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Iben Lyskjær Heimann"
email = "iben.lyskjar@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Laura Elgaard Iisager Jensen"
email = "leij@clin.au.dk "
+++

# Study description

MeDIP-seq was performed on fragmented tissue-derived DNA from 116 clear cell renal cell carcinoma patients (116 tumor tissue samples and 34 adjacent normal tissue samples). Samples were collected from the Bio- and Genome Bank, Denmark (RBGB) during 2011 and 2020. Libraries were prepared from up to 40 ng of DNA and paired-end sequenced at 0.5x coverage per input control sample and 1.5x coverage per immunoprecipitated sample. Fastq files were demultiplexed (bwa mem v0.7.17) and adapter sequences were trimmed (cutadapt v3.7) prior to mapping of sequence reads to the hg38 reference genome. Data contains bam files and index files.

Samples                           | Technology          | Sequencing platform
----------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------
R01T00001D\_IP, R01T00001D\_IC..  | Illumina NGS        | Illumina Novaseq


# Original publication

Lisager et al. *Methylation Profiles and Genomic Instability in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma: Prognostic Relevance Revealed by Comprehensive MeDIP-seq Analysis.*

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to iben.lyskjar@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Iben Lyskjær and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
