+++
title = "The Blood T-cell Receptor Repertoire is an Independent Prognostic Marker in Patients with Castration Re-sistant Prostate Cancer"
date = "2025-11-11"

[extra]
id = "GDK000021"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Paul Salachan"
email = "pvs@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

T-cell receptor sequencing generated from 189 blood samples taken upon CRPC
diagnosis in patients in-cluded in the CROC project. DNA was isolated from
PBMCs. Dataset includes raw files and TCR clones gen-erated from MiXCR.

# Original publication

Glud et. al. *The Blood T-cell Receptor Repertoire is an Independent Prognostic
Marker in Patients with Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer.*

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the
prostate dataset will need to con-tact the Data Access Committee via email to
kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard
Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical
Medicine, Aarhus Uni-versity). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed
to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The
Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the
specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the
application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named
collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agree-ment
and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by
the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal
office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
