+++
title = "Proteomics of colorectal tumors identifies the role of CAVIN1 in tumor formation and progression"
date = "2023-12-01"

[extra]
id = "GDK000008"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Claus Lindbjerg Andersen"
email = "cla@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Jesper Bertram Bramsen"
email = "bramsen@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description
We present a multi-omics proteome and transcriptome analysis of a Danish
colorectal cancer tumor cohort composed of 428 fresh frozen biopsies from tumors
of 387 patients mainly diagnosed with TNM stage II or III disease. The proteome
data of 428 samples from 387 patients, and the phosphoproteome of 54 samples
from 53 patients is deposited at the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE
partner repository. Proteomics data is available via ProteomeXchange with
identifier PXD044246. The RNA sequencing data from 372 matching samples from 330
patients is deposited here and consist of three batches in accordance with the
three sequencing technologies used (Dataset IDs: GDK0000XX_a; GDK0000XX_b;
GDK0000XX_c; see below). RNA sequencing data from dataset ID GDK0000XX_a and
GDK0000XX_b was previously published as part of manuscripts PMID: 33332369 and
PMID: 28494874, respectively. Details regarding patient selection, tumor sample
preparation, RNA isolation and sequencing can be found in the original
publication listed below.

| Dataset ID | Sample number | Sample type | Technology                       | Sequencing platform   |
|------------|---------------|-------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------|
| A          | 147           | Tumor RNA   | Illumina NGS,   TruSeq           | Illumina Hiseq 2000   |
| B          | 34            | Tumor RNA   | Illumina NGS, ScriptSeq v2       | Illumina NextSeq500   |
| C          | 191           | Tumor RNA   | Illumina NGS, KAPA RNA HyperPrep | Illumina NovaSeq 6000 |


# Original publication

Martinez-Val et al. Proteomics of colorectal tumors identifies the role of
CAVIN1 in tumor formation and progression.

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the
colorectal cancer dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via
email to cla@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Claus Lindbjerg
Andersen, Jesper Bertram Bramsen, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical
Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed
to share the data (pseudonymized) it will require prior approval from The Danish
National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new
research goal. The author (based in Denmark) must submit the application for
ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In
addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing
Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the
institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution
of the external researcher (data processor).
