+++
title = "Spatial whole transcriptome profiling of primary tumor from patients with metastatic prostate cancer"
date = "2023-06-23"

[extra]
id = "GDK000001"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Paul Salachan"
email = "pvs@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

Spatial whole transcriptome data generated from 3 advanced prostate cancer patients using the 10X genomics Visium platform. Fresh frozen prostate tissue samples acquired as part of TURP. The dataset includes raw sequencing files, processed gene expression files and clinical data for each of the 3 patients.

Samples                 | Technology | Sequencing platform
------------------------|------------|--------------------
CRPC1, CRPC2, and NEPC1 | Visium FF  | Illumina NextSeq


# Original publication

Salachan et al. Spatial whole transcriptome profiling of primary tumor from patients with metastatic prostate cancer.

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to <kdso@clin.au.dk>. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
