+++
title = "High-definition spatial transcriptomics visualizes the cellular and molecular architecture facilitating perineural invasion in localized prostate cancer"
date = "2026-06-19"

[extra]
id = "GDK000023"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Paul Salachan"
email = "pvs@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

Spatial whole transcriptome data at 8um resolution generated from a prostate cancer patient with perineural invasion using the 10X genomics Visium HD platform. Prostate tissue sample was acquired as part of radical prostatectomy and preserved as FFPE blocks. The dataset includes raw sequencing files and processed gene expression files.

| Dataset ID | Samples | Technology	      | Sequencing platform |
|------------|---------|------------------|---------------------|
| GDK0000xx	 | PNI_HD1 | Visium HD (FFPE)	| Illumina NovaSeq X+ |


# Original publication

Salachan et al. *High-definition spatial transcriptomics visualizes the cellular and molecular architecture facilitating perineural invasion in localized prostate cancer*

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
