+++
title = "Up-regulation of intra-tumor LDLR gene expression is associated with statin treatment and better prostate cancer prognosis"
date = "2025-02-28"

[extra]
id = "GDK000017"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Kia Eistrup Fonfara"
email = "kiaeistrup@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description

QuantSeq bulk mRNA sequencing from one prostate cancer cohort. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples from primary prostate tissue. The datasets include raw count data and metadata.

Dataset ID | Samples                          | Technology          | Sequencing platform
-----------|----------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------
Cohort 1   | RP01…RP266                       | QuantSeq (Lexogen)  | Illumina NovaSeq 6000


# Original publication

K.E. Fonfara et al. *Up-regulation of intra-tumor LDLR gene expression is associated with statin treatment and better prostate cancer prognosis.*

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate datasets will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
