+++
title = "Impact of Germline DNA Repair Gene Variants on Prognosis and Treatment of Men with Advanced Prostate Cancer"
date = "2023-10-31"

[extra]
id = "GDK000006"
access_type = "Controlled"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen"
email = "kdso@clin.au.dk"

[[extra.contacts]]
name = "Emma Kirstine Bollmann Hansen"
email = "ebh@clin.au.dk"
+++

# Study description
Targeted exon capture sequencing data generated from buffy coat samples from 221 metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients. The dataset includes raw sequencing files, processed variant call files, and clinical data for each of the 221 patients.

Samples             | Technology   | Sequencing Platform
--------------------|--------------|------------------------
CRPC\_1 - CRPC\_221 | Illumina NGS | Illumina MiSeq


# Original publication

Hansen et al. _Impact of Germline DNA Repair Gene Variants on Prognosis and Treatment of Men with Advanced Prostate Cancer_.

# Data access

External researchers (academic or commercial) interested in analysing the prostate dataset will need to contact the Data Access Committee via email to kdso@clin.au.dk. The Data Access Committee is formed of Karina Dalsgaard Sørensen, Michael Borre, and Ole Halfdan Larsen (Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University). Due to Danish Law, for the authors to be allowed to share the data (pseudonymised) it will require prior approval from The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (or similar) for the specific new research goal. The author (based in Denmark) has to submit the application for ethical approval, with the external researcher(s) as named collaborator(s). In addition to ethical approval, a Collaboration Agreement and a Data Processing Agreement is required, both of which must be approved by the legal office of the institution of the author (data owner) and the legal office of the institution of the external researcher (data processor).
